The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Orchid Album, Volume 1, by 
Robert Warner and Benjamin Samuel Williams and Thomas Moore

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Orchid Album, Volume 1
       Comprising coloured figures and descriptions of new, rare,
       and beautiful Orchidaceous Plants

Author: Robert Warner
        Benjamin Samuel Williams
        Thomas Moore

Illustrator: John Nugent Fitch

Release Date: July 18, 2017 [EBook #55145]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ORCHID ALBUM, VOLUME 1 ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Carol Spears and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                                  THE
                             ORCHID ALBUM,


                               COMPRISING
                   COLOURED FIGURES AND DESCRIPTIONS
                                   OF
                        NEW, RARE, AND BEAUTIFUL
                          ORCHIDACEOUS PLANTS.


                              CONDUCTED BY
                    ROBERT WARNER, F.L.S., F.R.H.S.,
                 Author of SELECT ORCHIDACEOUS PLANTS,
                                  AND
              BENJAMIN SAMUEL WILLIAMS, F.L.S., F.R.H.S.,
               Author of the ORCHID-GROWERS’ MANUAL, etc.

     The Botanical Descriptions by THOMAS MOORE, F.L.S., F.R.H.S.,
                CURATOR of the CHELSEA BOTANIC GARDENS.

          _THE COLOURED FIGURES BY JOHN NUGENT FITCH, F.L.S._


                               VOLUME I.


                                LONDON:
                      Published by B. S. Williams,
                                 AT THE
          VICTORIA AND PARADISE NURSERIES, UPPER HOLLOWAY, N.
                              MDCCCLXXXII.

                               DEDICATED
                         BY SPECIAL PERMISSION
                                   TO
                    _H.R.H. The Princess of Wales,_
                                   BY
                          HER ROYAL HIGHNESS’
                                      Very obedient and humble Servants,
                                                          ROBERT WARNER,
                                                   BENJAMIN S. WILLIAMS.




                                PREFACE.


The great advances which have been made within the last few years in the
introduction and the cultivation of Exotic Orchids, have suggested the
desirability of devoting a monthly publication to the illustration of
the best forms of these singular and captivating aristocratic plants,
and also to the explanation of the most successful methods of growing
them, its object being to supply such information concerning them as the
Orchid Grower may be likely to find useful in directing his purchases,
and in suggesting the various points of discreet and masterly
management. Moreover, we have found that figures of the better varieties
of Orchids are much in request.

These considerations have induced us to commence the publication of the
Orchid Album, in the confident expectation that we shall meet with
sufficient support and encouragement to enable us to continue it, and,
so far as our experience goes, we have no reason to feel disappointed,
for we find that Orchid growers, both amateur and professional, are
taking a marked interest not only in the plates but also in the cultural
notes.

In regard to the subjects for illustration, we hope in due course to
figure not only the typical form of all the more popular and interesting
species, but also the leading varieties, when they prove sufficiently
distinct and meritorious. It is for these that we anticipate our
subscribers and readers will most anxiously look.

Being of Royal Quarto size, the pages of the Album are sufficiently
large to enable the artist to produce ample and intelligible portraits
of the plants without their becoming cumbersome; and, as they will be
drawn and coloured in the best style, we confidently hope they will
prove to be acceptable to the lovers and growers of Orchids generally.
Thus we trust we may be permitted to lay before our patrons an
acceptable Annual Album of Floral Pictures, which will be, at once,
welcomed both to the Drawing-room and the Library.

The work has been commenced in deference to the urgent representations
of many of the leading cultivators of these remarkable and fascinating
plants, who have pointed out to us the want which we are now
endeavouring to meet. The great advantage and pleasure which Orchid
Growers have derived from the publication of such illustrated works as
the _Select Orchidaceous Plants_, and such practical instructions as are
given in the _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, lead us to believe that there
exists a desire and a taste for further Orchidic literature, which we
trust the Orchid Album may in some considerable degree supply. Our chief
aim will be to give authentic information as to the nomenclature of the
plants, and to disseminate correct instructions in regard to their
cultural requirements. The finer new Orchids, as well as the older
meritorious species and varieties, will be figured with equal fidelity,
and described with equal accuracy. We shall at all times feel grateful
to those Amateurs or Trade growers who may give us information as to the
flowering either of novelties or of remarkably fine forms of the older
kinds, especially if they are such as will be suitable for figuring.

The Annual Volumes will consist of the twelve Monthly Parts issued up to
June in each year, when the volume will be completed by the publication
of a Title Page and Index.

                                                         B. S. WILLIAMS.

  Victoria and Paradise Nurseries,
      Upper Holloway, London, N.,
          _June 1st, 1882_.




                            INDEX TO PLATES.


                                                                   PLATE
  AËRIDES LOBBII, _Hort. Veitch_                                      21
  ANGRÆCUM EBURNEUM, _Du Pet.-Th._                                    41
  ANGULOA RUCKERII SANGUINEA, _Lindl._                                19
  BURLINGTONIA CANDIDA, _Lindl._                                      18
  CALANTHE VEITCHII, _Lindl._                                         31
  CATTLEYA GUTTATA LEOPOLDII, _Lind. et Rchb. f._                     16
  CATTLEYA MENDELII GRANDIFLORA, _Williams et Moore_                   3
  CATTLEYA MORGANÆ, _Williams et Moore_                                6
  CATTLEYA SUPERBA SPLENDENS, _Lem._                                  33
  CATTLEYA TRIANÆ, _Lind. et Rchb. f._                                45
  CATTLEYA VELUTINA, _Rchb. f._                                       26
  CŒLOGYNE MASSANGEANA, _Rchb. f._                                    29
  CYMBIDIUM PARISHII, _Rchb. f._                                      25
  CYPRIPEDIUM CHLORONEURUM, _Rchb. f._                                37
  CYPRIPEDIUM LAWRENCEANUM, _Rchb. f._                                22
  CYPRIPEDIUM POLITUM, _Rchb. f._                                     36
  CYPRIPEDIUM STONEI, _Low_                                            8
  DENDROBIUM AINSWORTHII ROSEUM, _Moore_                              20
  DENDROBIUM BIGIBBUM, _Lindl._                                       38
  DENDROBIUM SUAVISSIMUM, _Rchb. f._                                  13
  DENDROBIUM SUPERBUM, _Rchb. f._                                     42
  EPIDENDRUM VITELLINUM MAJUS, _Hort._                                 4
  LÆLIA ANCEPS DAWSONI, _Anders._                                     44
  LÆLIA ELEGANS ALBA, _Williams et Moore_                             30
  LÆLIA PURPURATA WILLIAMSII, _Hort._                               9-10
  LÆLIA SCHRÖDERII, _Williams et Moore_                                2
  LÆLIA XANTHINA, _Lindl._                                            23
  MASDEVALLIA HARRYANA CŒRULESCENS, _Hort._                           24
  MASDEVALLIA SHUTTLEWORTHII, _Rchb. f._                               5
  MILTONIA CUNEATA, _Lindl._                                          46
  ODONTOGLOSSUM ALEXANDRÆ, _Batem._                                   47
  ODONTOGLOSSUM ALEXANDRÆ FLAVEOLUM, _Williams et Moore_              43
  ODONTOGLOSSUM ANDERSONIANUM, _Rchb. f._                             35
  ODONTOGLOSSUM BREVIFOLIUM, _Lindl._                                 27
  ODONTOGLOSSUM KRAMERI, _Rchb. f._                                   40
  ONCIDIUM CONCOLOR, _Hook._                                           1
  ONCIDIUM GARDNERI, _Lindl._                                         12
  ONCIDIUM HÆMATOCHILUM, _Lindl._                                     32
  PAPHINIA CRISTATA, _Lindl._                                         34
  PESCATOREA KLABOCHORUM, _Rchb. f._                                  17
  PHALÆNOPSIS AMABILIS DAYANA, _Hort._                                11
  PHALÆNOPSIS STUARTIANA NOBILIS, _Rchb. f._                          39
  PROMENÆA CITRINA, _Don._                                             7
  TRICHOPILIA SUAVIS ALBA, _Hort._                                    14
  VANDA CŒRULESCENS, _Griff._                                         48
  VANDA PARISHII, _Rchb. f._                                          15
  ZYGOPETALUM GAUTIERI, _Lem._                                        28




                      INDEX TO NOTES AND SYNONYMS.


                                                             UNDER PLATE
  Aërides Fieldingii, Dr. Ainsworth’s                                  4
  Aërides Leeanum, Mr. Law-Schofield’s                                37
  Aërides odoratum majus, Mrs. Arbuthnot’s                            14
  Aërides Schröderii, Dr. Ainsworth’s                                  4
  Aërides suavissimum, Mr. Coates’                                    18
  Angræcum eburneum virens                                            41
  Angræcum sesquipedale, Mr. Coates’                                  18
  Angræcum superbum, _Du Pet.-Th._                                    41
  Bletia xanthina, _Rchb. f._                                         23
  Bollea cœlestis, as a block plant                                   40
  Bolleas, Mr. Gair’s                                                 17
  Cattleya Dowiana, Mr. Dodgson’s                                     19
  Cattleya Dowiana, Mr. Lee’s                                          2
  Cattleya gigas, Mr. Bockett’s                                        6
  Cattleya gigas, Mr. Lee’s                                            2
  Cattleya labiata Lindigiana, _Karst._                               45
  Cattleya labiata Trianæ, _Duch._                                    45
  Cattleya Leopoldii, _Hort. Versch._                                 16
  Cattleya superba, Sir T. Lawrence’s                                  3
  Cattleya Trianæ, Mr. Wright’s                                       41
  Cattleya Trianæ Dodgsoni                                            40
  Cattleya Trianæ Osmani                                              40
  Cymbidium eburneum, correction                                      29
  Cypripedium barbatum superbum, Mr. Dodgson’s                         4
  Cypripedium insigne, Mrs Haywood’s                                  27
  Cypripedium Spicerianum, Mr. Bockett’s                              19
  Cypripedium villosum, Mr. Wyatt’s                                   42
  Cyrtochilum citrinum, _Hook._                                        1
  Dendrobium Ainsworthii, _Moore_                                     20
  Dendrobium Falconeri, Marquis of Lothian’s                          44
  Dendrobium Findleyanum, Mr. Bowring’s                               32
  Dendrobium Hillii, Mr. Wyatt’s                                      42
  Dendrobium macranthum, _Hook._                                      42
  Dendrobium macrophyllum, _Lindl._                                   42
  Dendrobium nobile, a three-lipped                                   48
  Dendrobium superbum (macrophyllum), Prince of Wales’                36
  Dendrobium Wardianum, Mr. Salamon’s                                 44
  Dendrochilum filiforme, Mr. Hill’s                                  15
  Epidendrum elatius, var., _Rchb. f._                                45
  Epidendrum labiatum Trianæ, _Rchb. f._                              45
  Epidendrum nemorale, Sir T. Lawrence’s                               3
  Lælia anceps Dawsoni, Mr. Dodgson’s                                 28
  Lælia autumnalis atrorubens, Mr. Chamberlain’s                      28
  Lælia Dominiana rosea, _Hort. Veitch_                               12
  Lælia elegans prasiata                                              40
  Lælia Philbrickiana, _Hort. Veitch_                                  5
  Limodorum eburneum, _Bory._                                         41
  Masdevallia chimæra, Dr. Ainsworth’s                                26
  Masdevallia Harryana, _Rchb. f._                                    24
  Masdevallia Lindeni, _Hook._                                        24
  Masdevallia Lindeni Harryana, _André_                               24
  Maxillaria citrina, _Lyons_                                          7
  Maxillaria cristata, _Lindl._                                       34
  Miltonia speciosa, _Kl._                                            46
  Odontoglossum Alexandræ, Dr. Ainsworth’s                            26
  Odontoglossum Alexandræ flaveolum, Mr. Hardy’s                      34
  Odontoglossum Alexandræ reginæ                                      48
  Odontoglossum Bluntii, _Rchb. f._                                   47
  Odontoglossum crispum, _Lindl._                                     47
  Odontoglossum crispum flaveolum, _Rchb. f._                         43
  Odontoglossum Londesboroughianum, Mr. Law-Schofield’s               27
  Odontoglossum Roezlii, Mr. Todd’s                                   43
  Odontoglossum vexillarium, Mr. Bull’s autumn-flowering variety      23
  Odontoglossums at Trentham                                          43
  Oncidium luridum purpuratum, _Lodd._                                32
  Oncidium speciosum, _Rchb. f._                                      46
  Orchids, Dr. Ainsworth’s                                            26
  Orchids, Mr. Dodgson’s                                               4
  Orchids, Mr. Dorman’s                                               40
  Orchids, Mr. Hardy’s                                                 4
  Orchids, Baron Schröder’s                                           22
  Orchids at Arnot Hill                                               15
  Orchids at Ferguslie                                                18
  Orchids at Manchester, 1881                                          4
  Orchids in Belgium, Dr. Boddaert’s                                   1
  Orchids in Belgium, M. D. Massange’s                                16
  Orchids from Dr. Paterson                                           45
  Orchids, from Perth, N.B.                                           48
  Orchids, raised blinds for                                          35
  Orchids, shading                                                30, 35
  Pescatoreas, Mr. Gair’s                                             17
  Phalænopsids, Mr. Bockett’s                                         11
  Phalænopsis intermedia Portei, Baron Schröder’s                     22
  Phalænopsis Stuartiana, _Rchb. f._                                  39
  Restrepia antennifera, M. D. Massange’s                             16
  Rodriquezia candida, _Batem._                                       18
  Sphagnum, best kind for Odontoglots                                 43
  Trichopilia suavis, _Lindl._                                        14
  Vanda Cathcartii, M. D. Massange’s                                  16
  Vanda cœrulea, Marquis of Lothian’s                                 17
  Vanda Lowii, Sir T. Lawrence’s                                       3
  Vanda suavis, Dr. Ainsworth’s                                        4
  Vanda suavis, Mr. Dodgson’s                                          4
  Vanda tricolor, Mr. Broome’s                                        25
  Vanda tricolor planilabris, M. Massange’s                           16
  Zygopetalum Klabochorum, _Rchb. f._                                 17

    [Illustration:  PL. 1.
    ONCIDIUM CONCOLOR.]




                           ONCIDIUM CONCOLOR.
                               [Plate 1.]
                Native of the Organ Mountains of Brazil.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ small, tufted, ovate or ovate-oblong,
  compressed, somewhat furrowed, two-leaved. _Leaves_ subcoriaceous,
  oblong-linear or ligulate, acute, bright green. _Scape_ radical,
  springing from the base of the young pseudobulbs, drooping, furnished
  with small bracts. _Flowers_ yellow, racemose; _sepals_ (dorsal)
  ovate-lanceolate or obovate, acute, the lateral ones smaller,
  lance-shaped, and united behind the lip for about half their length;
  _petals_ obovate, acute, somewhat undulated, about as long as the
  sepals; _lip_ (labellum) large and prominent, roundish subpanduriform,
  emarginate, somewhat clawed, furnished with a pair of plates or
  lamellæ (bilamellate) at the base, of a clear yellow colour, as are
  the sepals and petals. _Column_ about half as long as the petals, with
  a projecting tooth on each side.

  Oncidium concolor, _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 3752; _Lindley_,
  _Folia Orchidacea_, Art. _Oncidium_, No. 65 (excl. syn. Klotzsch);
  _Reichenbach fil._ in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, vi.
  731.; _Carrière_, in _Revue Horticole_, 1881, 30, with tab.

  Cyrtochilum citrinum, _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 4454.


The brilliant little plant here figured—a representation in the tribe
_Vandeæ_, of the great genus _Oncidium_—belongs to the group of Oncids
which Lindley named _Tetrapetala micropetala_, in which two of the
sepals are united so that the petaloid organs, as distinguished from the
lip, are reduced to four in number (_tetrapetala_), and at the same time
the petals, which are about equal in size to the sepals, are
comparatively small by comparison with the remaining organ.

This species, although not new, was until recently extremely rare, and
was, indeed, seldom met with in collections; now, however, the little
gem is very plentiful, thanks to the indefatigable zeal of our
collectors, so that growers who do not possess it may obtain it at a
very small cost. The species is one of the most compact-growing and
beautiful of the _Oncidiums_, producing, as it does, from the base of
the new bulbs, many-flowered drooping spikes of rich yellow blossoms. It
is an excellent subject for planting in a pan or basket to be suspended
from the roof of the house, where the brightly-coloured flowers produce
a charming effect; indeed, we do not know of any Orchid which has a
better appearance when grown in this way.

_Oncidium concolor_ succeeds best in a compost of peat with a little
sphagnum moss added, and with plenty of good drainage. We have grown it
most successfully in small pans, but it can be cultivated either in a
basket or on a block. It would succeed equally well in a pot, but the
drooping character of the flower-spikes renders it a most fitting
subject for growing in either of the above-named receptacles, and for
suspension from the roof. As to temperature, we find it succeeds best in
the Odontoglossum-house during the summer months. After it has flowered,
and while it is making its growth, a copious supply of water should be
given to it, always keeping the soil moist until the growth of the bulbs
is completed. When it has finished its growth, it should be removed to
the Cattleya-house, where it should be kept moderately dry until it
produces its spikes about March or April.

For exhibition purposes this is a most valuable little plant, being easy
of cultivation, distinct in colour, and flowering during the principal
exhibition months, May and June; its long lasting quality is also a
great point in its favour. In order to preserve the flowers for a
considerable time, they should be kept free from damp, for if allowed to
get wet they soon become spotted, and fade, but when kept in this way,
they will last at least six or seven weeks. The plant is altogether a
most valuable Orchid, and as it takes up but little room, we recommend
growers to procure a good stock of it, as its effect when suspended
among other flowering Orchids is charming.


Orchids in Belgium.—When in Ghent a few days ago, I had the good fortune
to receive an invitation to view the celebrated collection of Dr.
Boddaert of that city. The collection is a very extensive one, and the
plants are exceedingly well grown and healthy. There was a good show of
flowering Orchids, among which may be mentioned:—_Trichopilia crispa
marginata_ with forty-two expanded flowers, a marvel of cultivation;
_Odontoglossum Phalænopsis_ with twenty-six flowers, a fine well-grown
plant; _Cypripedium Argus_ with six flower spikes; the new _Trichopilia
suavis alba_, of which we hope to give a plate later on; _Anguloa
Ruckerii sanguinea_ with several flowers; also the rare _Nanodes
Medusæ_, with _Odontoglossums_, _Vandas_, _Masdevallias_, &c., in great
variety.

                                                            H. Williams.

    [Illustration:  PL. 2.
    LÆLIA SCHRÖDERII.]




                           LÆLIA SCHRÖDERII.
                               [Plate 2.]
                            Native of Bahia.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ (or pseudobulbs) club-shaped, about a foot and a
  half high, monophyllous, furrowed when mature. _Leaves_ coriaceous,
  oblong, acute, broad to the base, light green. _Scape_ three to
  four-flowered, issuing from a terminal oblong compressed bract, an
  inch wide and five inches long. _Flowers_ large, subhorizontal, about
  seven inches across, delicately coloured, with a prettily veined lip;
  _sepals_ lanceolate, reflexed, three-fourths of an inch wide, white;
  _petals_ convex, ovate, narrowed to the base, somewhat crispy at the
  edge, pure white, scarcely as long as the lip; _lip_ (labellum)
  membranaceous, three-lobed, the lateral lobes convolute around the
  column, yellow outside, striped with deeper yellow veins, the middle
  lobe ovate, obtuse, undulated, the anterior portion and margin white,
  the mouth veined with magenta-rose, the disk naked, and the tubulose
  basal portion deep yellow, veined with magenta. _Column_ much shorter
  than the lateral lobes of the lip.

  Lælia Schröderii, _supra_.


This plant belongs to that tribe of the Orchid family which is called
_Epidendreæ_, and of which the genus _Epidendrum_ is regarded as the
type. This group is known by its waxy pollen-masses, which are attached
to a distinct caudicle, but bear no separable stigmatic gland as occurs
in the tribe _Vandeæ_. The genus is closely related to _Cattleya_, and
contains some of the finest ornaments of our Orchid-houses.

The subject of our present illustration is a new and most beautiful
Orchid, now figured and described for the first time. It is closely
allied to _Lælia grandis_, but is distinct from that species, inasmuch
as the sepals and petals are white, whereas those of _L. grandis_ are of
a nankeen yellow. It is named in honour of Baron Henry Schröder, an
enthusiastic admirer of this handsome class of plants. The species
flowered for the first time this year, in the Victoria and Paradise
Nurseries.

The flowers are produced in May and June, three or four together, on
spikes which are produced from the apex of the new bulbs; they have a
delicate and pleasing appearance, the sepals and petals being pure
white, while the lip is white, striped with rose, throat deep yellow,
veined with magenta. It should be kept free from damp when in flower, as
the blossoms being of a delicate nature, soon spot and go off; but kept
in this way free from moisture they will last about four weeks in a
fresh and perfect state.

In growth the plant somewhat resembles _L. purpurata_, the bulbs and
foliage being about eighteen inches in height, and of a light green
colour. It succeeds well grown in the Cattleya-house in pots filled with
peat and a little sphagnum moss, over plenty of drainage. It should
receive a moderate supply of water at the root during the growing
season, and should never be allowed to get thoroughly dry. When it has
made its growth it should be allowed to rest, and at that time should be
kept rather dry, only giving it sufficient water to prevent it from
shrivelling.

_Lælias_ are subject to the attacks of white scale, but this can easily
be got rid of by sponging with clean water. Thrips sometimes attack the
young growths, and if allowed to increase, soon disfigure the leaves.


Cattleya gigas and C. Dowiana.—These _Cattleyas_ have been considered to
be shy-flowering species, and we have sometimes found them to be so in
our own experience, but we are beginning to change our opinion on this
subject. No doubt there are some plants that grow and flower more freely
than others, but a great deal depends on the conditions in which they
are placed and the treatment they receive. I recently had the pleasure
of visiting the collection of W. Lee, Esq., of Leatherhead, which in
time will be one of the finest to be seen in this country. The Estate is
situated in an open part of the country, and the Orchid-houses are built
on the side of a hill where they get the full light and sun, while they
are sheltered from the driving winds; these houses are, indeed, all that
can be desired, the requisitions of the various classes of plants having
been well studied. Every accommodation is provided for those kinds, such
as _Cattleya gigas_ and _C. Dowiana_, that are difficult to bloom. These
two were splendidly in flower, and are most lovely and distinct kinds;
the flowers of _C. gigas_ were nearly nine inches in diameter, the
sepals and petals of the purest dark rosy colour, and the lip a fine
rich dark crimson magenta. _C. Dowiana_ was also very fine and
attractive in colour, the sepals and petals being of a nankeen yellow,
and the lip of a rich dark purple, elegantly pencilled and striped with
lines of gold. We hope at some future time to give our readers a plate
of the fine variety of _C. gigas_ above referred to. Both these species
are here grown as near the light as possible, and the treatment they
receive is, first to induce a vigorous growth, and then to give them a
good rest after the growth is completed, at the same time keeping them
well exposed to the light, and giving them merely sufficient water to
prevent them from shrivelling, a more ample supply of water being given
as soon as they show signs of flowering. There was also in this
collection another species that is generally considered difficult to
grow, namely, _Vanda teres_, of which there were three plants which had
been blooming very finely. When cultivated as these are, they well repay
all the trouble taken with them. These are grown at one end of the
house, without any shade.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 3.
    CATTLEYA MENDELII GRANDIFLORA.]




                     CATTLEYA MENDELII GRANDIFLORA.
                               [Plate 3.]
                Native of the United States of Columbia.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ oblong, club-shaped, furrowed when mature, twelve
  to eighteen inches high. _Leaves_ solitary coriaceous,
  ligulate-oblong, acute, dark green above, paler beneath. _Scape_ three
  to four-flowered, issuing from a terminal oblong compressed bract,
  which is three to four inches long, and an inch broad. _Flowers_ very
  large and exceedingly handsome, measuring eight inches across;
  _sepals_ an inch wide, lanceolate, recurved, white; _petals_
  spreading, clawed, broadly ovate, measuring nearly three inches
  across, plane towards the base prettily frilled in the anterior
  portion, the apex recurved, white, with a scarcely perceptible tint of
  blush near the edge; _lip_ obovate emarginate, three and a quarter
  inches long, the basal half entire, rolled over the column, the
  anterior portion expanded and beautifully fringed, about two inches in
  breadth and rather more in depth, the apical half occupied with a
  solid blotch of rich magenta rose, passing to white at the frilled
  edge, the side portions white, the disk and throat of a delicate tint
  of nankeen yellow, the extreme base white, with numerous divergent
  lines of magenta rose, a few of which (about two) run out to join the
  blotch at the tip of the anterior lobe. _Column_ about half as long as
  the convolute base of the lip, club-shaped, decurved, semiterete, with
  a rounded keel at the back.

  Cattleya Mendelii grandiflora, _supra._


When _Cattleya Mendelii_ was first flowered by S. Mendel, Esq., some few
years ago, many botanists were of opinion that it was not sufficiently
dissimilar from, but only a variety of, _C. Trianæ_. Since that time it
has been flowered in many different collections with but little
variation of character, and, as we think, has fully vindicated its
right, whether as a species or race, to be regarded as a distinct Orchid
of first-rate merit.

The subject of our plate is a gigantic variety of the _Cattleya
Mendelii_, which has just flowered in our own collection. It proves to
be in every way larger, and altogether superior, to the old type, the
flowers having much more substance, and being of better form, which
results from the greater width of the lip and petals. The sepals and
petals are white, the latter being very broad and of good substance,
while the lip is broad and well fringed, pure white in its upper part,
with a large bright magenta patch at the front part, and the throat is
orange, with reddish crimson veins, which stand out in fine contrast
against the pure white of the remaining portions of the flower. It
produces as many as four flowers on a spike, each flower measuring over
eight inches across, and the flowers are thrown well up above the
foliage, and thus produce the grandest appearance we have as yet seen in
any _Cattleya_.

_Cattleya Mendelii_ succeeds well in a compost of peat, with the
addition of a little sphagnum moss, and requires good drainage. We have
found it to do best in pots, with the plant well elevated above the rim,
but it can be grown with success either on a block or in a basket
suspended from the roof of the house. The temperature of the
Cattleya-house suits it best.

This is a grand plant for exhibition or decorative purposes, as the pure
white and magenta of its flowers are exceedingly effective amongst the
other species of _Cattleya_ which flower at the same time of year. The
flowering season is May and June, after which time _C. Mendelii_ begins
to make its growth. It should then receive a moderate supply of
water—not too much, as an over bountiful supply is apt to cause the
young growths to rot. After the annual growths are completed the plants
should be gradually dried off, only giving them sufficient water to keep
them from shrivelling.

The species of _Cattleya_ are all subject to white scale and thrips.
These insect pests may, however, be easily removed by careful sponging,
either with water or a little insecticide; they should be cleaned off as
soon as discovered, as if allowed to establish themselves they disfigure
the leaves and bulbs, and so spoil the appearance of the plants.
Cleanliness and good cultivation are the chief points to be considered
in the successful keeping of _Cattleyas_.


Vanda Lowii, &c.—One often hears that _Vanda Lowii_ does not bloom until
it attains a large size. This, however, is erroneous, for we have
flowered it when not more than two feet high; and we have also seen a
plant of about the same size in the collection of Sir Trevor Lawrence,
Bart., with a flower spike some four or five feet long, in full beauty,
with its two bright orange-yellow flowers at the base, the rest of the
blossoms being of a bright brownish-crimson colour. This was a most
extraordinary spike for so small a plant. When the specimens attain a
larger size they often produce six of these long spikes, which extend to
seven feet in length. We have one now showing this number of spikes, but
the plant is fully five feet high. We were glad to see in this
collection a grand mass of _Epidendrum nemorale majus_, which is figured
in the first series of Warner’s _Select Orchidaceous Plants_, but we
never expected to see such a specimen as that in the collection of Sir
Trevor Lawrence, which must have been three or four feet across, and had
eighteen spikes of its beautiful rosy and mauve-coloured flowers. This
plant was well worth going to see, as were many others: indeed, the fame
of this collection is so widely spread that it is almost needless to
comment upon it; suffice it to say, that it is the finest and best kept
collection we know of. At the time of our visit we were pleased to see
some fine plants of _Cattleya superba_ with their splendid deep rose and
crimson flowers; this is one of the most distinct and beautiful of all
_Cattleyas_, and had been grown in the East India House, suspended from
the roof.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 4.
    EPIDENDRUM VITELLINUM MAJUS.]




                      EPIDENDRUM VITELLINUM MAJUS.
                               [Plate 4.]
                           Native of Mexico.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ ovate, clustered, two-leaved. _Leaves_
  oblong-ligulate, acute, sheathing at the base. _Scape_ erect, six to
  nine inches high, racemose, many-flowered, longer than the leaves.
  _Flowers_ brilliant orange-scarlet, nearly two inches across, much
  larger than the typical form; _sepals_ spreading; _petals_ flat,
  elliptic, somewhat broader than the sepals, spreading, lanceolate,
  acute; _lip_ clawed, linear, abruptly acute, with a bifoveate
  (two-holed) callosity below the middle, deep yellow passing to
  orange-scarlet at the tip. _Column_ parallel with and nearly half the
  length of the lip, to which it is adnate towards the base, the
  anther-bed marginate in front.

  Epidendrum vitellinum majus, _of gardens_.


The original form of _Epidendrum vitellinum_, of which a good though
pale-coloured figure will be found in the _Botanical Register_ for 1840
(t. 35), is one of the most brilliant of the _Epidendreæ_, on account of
its remarkable fiery colour, which makes it invaluable for contrasting
with other subjects, both in the Orchid-house, in the jardinière, or in
the bouquet. The same colour, or something near it, occurs in a few
other Orchids, which are equally valuable from a decorative point of
view, as for example in _Lælia cinnabarina_, _Lælia harpophylla_, and
_Ada aurantiaca_, all of them being plants, which, under favourable
conditions, yield a brilliant effect. The subject of our plate has the
advantage of producing larger and more showy flowers than its type, and
to this extent is the more desirable of the two for the house-stage, or
exhibition table.

Until within the last few years this plant was very rare, but having
been imported in large quantities it is now to be found in every
collection, however limited its pretensions. The bright colour of its
orange-scarlet flowers, produced in considerable numbers on upright
spikes, renders it a most striking and distinct species. We have known
the flowers to last as long as twelve weeks in perfection; in fact, we
have on several occasions exhibited a plant of it at as many as six
different successive exhibitions. Mixed with other Orchids it has a most
telling effect; and a well-flowered specimen once seen by a novice is
likely to produce a lasting impression. In the Broomfield collection it
is used very largely in association with Odontoglossums, and the effect
of the orange-scarlet flowers amongst the numerous spikes of
_Odontoglossum Alexandræ_, and other species, is charming.

We have found this _Epidendrum_ to do well in the Odontoglossum-house in
a compost of peat and sphagnum moss. It does equally well in a pot or in
a basket, and should receive a fair supply of water while growing. The
plant seems to revel in a good amount of sunlight, but it must be kept
from the burning rays of the sun by a slight shading, too much sunshine
being apt to make the foliage become blotched and sickly-looking.

The variety _majus_ blooms at a different time of the year from the
original species, which has the flowers much smaller, and which blooms
in August and September from the young growths; whereas the variety
_majus_ flowers from the tips of the bulbs of the previous year’s
growth. There are several forms of the plant, some with flowers much
larger and brighter than others; indeed, the one here figured is not so
large as some that were flowered years ago, which may be due to the fact
that they were old-established plants. We remember the late Mrs.
Lawrence, of Ealing Park, exhibiting a remarkably strong specimen at one
of the Chiswick shows, thirty-five years since, a perfect blaze of
flower. S. Brunton, Esq., also exhibited a grand plant of a good variety
a few years back; and C. W. Lea, Esq., Parkfield, Worcester, had a
wonderful example in bloom, last year. These several plants were all
part of the early importations.


The Manchester Show of Orchids, June, 1881.—The display of Orchids at
the Manchester Exhibition was a very fine one, and no Orchid grower
should have missed the sight. The specimens were truly marvellous,
especially the sixteen plants shown by R. Dodgson, Esq., of Blackburn,
amongst which were a _Vanda suavis_ with about a dozen flower-spikes;
_Lælia purpurata_ and _Cattleya Warneri_, both wonderful specimens, as
also was _Masdevallia Harryana_; _Cypripedium barbatum superbum_ which
had a hundred blooms upon it, and was not made up for the occasion, but
had been grown on from a single plant; and _Dendrobium Wardianum_ which
was a magnificent plant. Great credit is due to Mr. Osman for his
talent, in successfully cultivating so fine a collection. G. Hardy,
Esq., of Timperley, exhibited some wonderful plants, especially of
_Cattleyas_, _Lælias_, _Dendrobium thyrsiflorum_, _Oncidium
Marshallianum_, _Odontoglossum vexillarium_, &c. R. F. Ainsworth, Esq.,
M.D., also exhibited some fine specimens, especially _Vanda suavis_,
_Aërides Fieldingii_, and _A. Schröderii_; these three are most
extraordinary plants, and have been grown in the collection for eighteen
years, which is a sufficient proof of what can be done by perseverance,
and, moreover, gives one an idea how well Orchids can be grown and
exhibited for many successive years. We have known these three specimens
to be shown at the Manchester exhibitions and elsewhere for the past ten
or fifteen years, and they are now in the finest possible condition, as
they have always been, under the successful management of Mr. Mitchell.
There were besides, other exhibitors whose specimens were well worthy of
note.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 5.
    MASDEVALLIA SHUTTLEWORTHII.]




                      MASDEVALLIA SHUTTLEWORTHII.
                               [Plate 5.]
                Native of the United States of Colombia.


  Epiphytal. _Rhizome_ slender, slowly creeping. _Leaves_ crowded,
  petiolate, the petiole with a sheathing scale at the base, the blade
  about equalling the petiole, two to three inches long,
  elliptic-oblong, acute, pale green, obscurely three to five-nerved.
  _Scapes_ numerous, slender, as long as or longer than the petioles,
  green, with an ovate acuminate appressed bract at the top. _Flowers_
  yellowish, tinted with rose, rather large for the size of the plant;
  the perianth tube very short and swollen at the base; _dorsal sepal_
  of a pale yellowish red, indistinctly dotted with pale rosy red spots,
  and marked with from five to seven (or nine according to Reichenbach)
  longitudinal wine-coloured nerves, fully an inch long, sub-erect,
  concave or somewhat hooded, obovate, suddenly contracted into a tail
  two or three times its own length, the tail green below and becoming
  orange-yellow towards the tip; _lateral sepals_ obliquely ovate,
  spreading, and decurved, thickly studded with deep red spots, and
  tapering off into a tail similar to that of the dorsal sepal; _petals_
  small, linear-oblong or ligulate, bilobed at the apex; _lip_ very
  small, broadly oblong, recurved at the tip, with two keels or ridges
  running down the centre. _Column_ short, three-toothed at the apex.

  Masdevallia Shuttleworthii, _Reichenbach fil._ in _Gardeners’
  Chronicle_, N.S. iii., 170; _Hooker fil._, _Botanical Magazine_, t.
  6372.


Of this interesting plant, one of a popular genus inhabiting the cool
temperate humid regions of Northern and Western South America, Professor
Reichenbach, by whom it was dedicated to Mr. Shuttleworth, one of Mr. W.
Bull’s collectors, remarks that it is “rather a nice thing amongst
_Masdevallias_ of the second order of beauty.” It was first flowered in
1878 by W. H. Punchard, Esq., of Poulett Lodge, Twickenham. Our figure
was prepared from a plant which has bloomed in our own collection
recently. We find it to be a very free-blooming species.

The _Masdevallias_ comprise many interesting species and varieties, some
of very remarkable structure, and others with colours of extraordinary
richness and brilliancy. Our present subject is not one of the most
showy, but it may be ranked with the more curious of the species, and is
certainly of a distinct and pleasing character, as is well represented
in our Plate. The plant was discovered by Mr. Shuttleworth, when
travelling for Mr. Bull, and by him it was first transmitted to Europe.
Since then we have received it from the same country through our own
collector, Mr. Carder. The _Masdevallias_ are plentiful in their native
habitats, but the difficulty of obtaining them in this country lies in
the risks attending importation, which are mainly attributable to the
fact that they have no thick fleshy bulbs to support them during their
journey. We have heard of thousands of plants of this particular species
having been sent off, but of these comparatively few have been received
alive, so that unless some more successful means of introducing them
into England can be found, it will always remain a rare plant.

_Masdevallia Shuttleworthii_ is of free-blooming habit, and the flowers
last a long time in perfection. It generally blossoms during the spring
and summer months. The plants require but little room, as the foliage is
of neat growth, and the whole height of the plant does not exceed from
six to eight inches. The leaves are of a dark green colour and firm
texture. The flower-scapes proceed from the young growth, and attain the
height of about eight inches, the more conspicuous spreading long-tailed
sepals being of a pleasing yellowish rose colour thickly marked with
wine-red spots, while the petals and lip are small and inconspicuous.

We find the plants grow well when potted in small pots or pans suspended
from the roof, and filled with peat and sphagnum moss; but they require
thorough drainage, since they need a liberal supply of water during
summer. In the autumn and winter months they do not require so full a
supply, but they must have sufficient to keep them moist. They thrive
best in the same house with the _Odontoglots_, where they obtain shade,
and are kept cool. None of the _Masdevallias_ like heat, and most of
them require the same kind of treatment. The house in which they are
grown should have a north aspect, so that they may not get too much
sun-heat, as this causes the leaves to become spotted, to the great
disfigurement of the plant.

Insects become a nuisance if allowed to accumulate on the plants. The
thrips, which is one of their greatest insect enemies, constantly
attacks them, and must be subdued by cleansing them frequently and
thoroughly with a sponge and warm soft water.

The propagation of _Masdevallias_ is effected by dividing the plants,
leaving a few old bulbs with a leading one in front. They are the
easiest of all Orchids to increase, and are best divided up
occasionally, as when the plants get too large they do not flower so
freely. The most suitable time to perform this operation is just as they
commence to make their growth. They should at first be put into small
pots, and shifted into larger ones as they increase in size, and
develope abundance of roots.


Lælia Philbrickiana.—This new Hybrid was exhibited at the Royal
Horticultural Society, South Kensington, by the Messrs. Veitch and Sons.
It was raised between _Cattleya Aclandiæ_ and _Lælia elegans_, partaking
of the dwarf habit of _C. Aclandiæ_. The plant grows about eight inches
high, and produces its leaves in pairs, of a dark green colour, about
four inches in length; from between these the flower-sheaths proceed.
The sepals and petals are of a glossy purplish crimson-brown, spotted
with darker spots; the lip is of a bright crimson, the basal part purple
and white. It blooms in June and July, and will be a very useful
addition to our collections.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 6.
    CATTLEYA MORGANÆ]




                           CATTLEYA MORGANÆ.
                               [Plate 6.]
                Native of the United States of Colombia.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ short, oblong or somewhat clavate, furrowed when
  mature, attaining with the leaves about eighteen inches in height.
  _Leaves_ solitary, coriaceous, ligulate-oblong, acute, of a light
  green colour. _Scape_ three to four-flowered, issuing from a terminal
  oblong compressed bract, which is about two and a half inches long.
  _Flowers_ large and pleasing on account of their delicate colouring,
  about six inches across when expanded; _sepals_ lanceolate, entire,
  three-fourths of an inch broad and about three inches long, recurved
  at the tip, white; _petals_ spreading, clawed, broadly ovate, fully
  two inches across, the margin entire at the base and much undulated in
  the anterior portion, white; _lip_ obovate, emarginate, about three
  inches long, the basal portion entire and rolled over the column, the
  anterior portion moderately expanded and beautifully frilled, white,
  like the rest of the flower, with a small blotch of pale magenta near
  the apex, but not quite extending to the margin, and stained on the
  disk with an obcordate blotch of clear yellow, passing into
  orange-yellow in the throat, the deeper portion being veined with
  yellow lines. _Column_ concealed by the convolute base of the lip.

  Cattleya Morganæ, _supra_.


One of the most chaste and charming of the summer-flowering _Cattleyas_,
and quite distinct in aspect from all others in cultivation. We have
great pleasure in dedicating it to Mrs. M. Morgan, of New York, who is a
great admirer of this noble class of Orchidaceous plants, and, moreover,
has a fine and valuable collection of them. The first specimen we
bloomed produced ten flower spikes, and was exhibited at the Manchester
Botanical and Horticultural Society’s Show in June, 1879; the plant was
the admiration of all who saw it, and was on that occasion awarded a
First Class Certificate on account of its distinct and pleasing
character.

_Cattleya Morganæ_ belongs to the same section of the genus as _C.
Mendelii_, of which section there are many races or varieties, all of
which are beautiful and rich in the colouring of the lip, some having
the sepals and petals white, while in others they are of a rosy hue,
more or less intense. The plant now before us grows about eighteen
inches in height, and has light green foliage with a somewhat drooping
habit. It produces its flowers freely, as many as four together on the
spike. The sepals and petals are pure white; and the lip is white with a
light magenta blotch near the apex, its throat orange colour, the
incurved base white, and the edge beautifully fringed. The flowers are
produced in May and June, and last from five to six weeks in perfection.
It makes a fine subject for decorative purposes, since its pure white
flowers form a charming contrast with the high-coloured varieties of
other species of _Cattleya_, of which there are many that come into
bloom at about the same time.

_Cattleya Morganæ_ requires the same treatment as _C. Mendelii_ and _C.
Mossiæ_, and will thrive well, grown either in a pot or basket, planted
in good fibrous peat and sphagnum moss. It will also succeed on a block
suspended from the roof. As in the case of the other _Cattleyas_, it
prefers to have all the light possible, but to be just sufficiently
shaded to keep off the direct rays of the sun. It must be borne in mind
that the plants are found growing naturally on the branches and stems of
trees in the forests, where they get some shade, and a free circulation
of air, which it is of great benefit to secure, and which should be made
a point of the utmost importance in the artificial cultivation of all
Orchids, as of most other plants. It would be a great boon to
cultivators if our collectors would note down and supply fuller and more
precise information on these points, for although of course the natural
conditions could not in all cases be carried out to the full extent, yet
we should then be better able to imitate them, and thus supply the
natural wants of the plants. In giving as much air and light as
possible, however, cold draughts must be avoided, which may be effected
by fixing the ventilators near the hot-water pipes, and should a cold
wind prevail by giving air on the opposite side, always closing the
house in good time. In summer water should be freely sprinkled about the
tables and paths twice a day, namely, in the morning, and about three or
four o’clock in the afternoon. During the dull dark days of winter, very
little moisture is required, but on warm days some water may be given to
the plants, especially in springtime when the days begin to lengthen.
Syringing should be avoided during the winter, except in the case of
those on blocks, for a little dewing with the syringe during the day,
will not hurt these, as the moisture quickly dries off. The water should
always be used in a tepid state.

One of the most important items in Orchid culture is cleanliness. Every
plant should be cleansed as soon as any indications of insect life are
perceived upon it, since there are Insecticides and other remedies sold
to destroy all such pests. Cockroaches, Snails, and Woodlice are very
troublesome, and should be well looked after at night when they come out
to feed on the young shoots and flowers. Woodlice may be caught by
laying down here and there traps, consisting of some moss, at night, or
half potatos or turnips scooped out in the centre, and placed about in
quiet nooks and corners, or on the pots; the woodlice will harbour under
them, and may be caught and destroyed in the morning.


Cattleya gigas.—See note under Plate 2. We have since received a
wonderfully grand flower of _Cattleya gigas_ from the fine collection of
J. S. Bockett, Esq., of Stamford Hill; it is eight and a half inches in
diameter; the sepals and petals are of a light rose colour, the lip
three inches across, and three in length, of the richest
crimson-magenta, margined with a lighter colour, and the throat partly
magenta and partly orange. The spike bore four of these flowers.—B. S.
W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 7.
    PROMENÆA CITRINA.]




                           PROMENÆA CITRINA.
                               [Plate 7.]
                           Native of Brazil.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ small, ovate, tetragonal. _Leaves_ three to
  four inches in length, oblong-ligulate, acute, tapering below into a
  narrow petiole, growing two together at the apex of the pseudobulb, of
  a pale green colour. _Scapes_ two to three inches long, bearing
  largish ovate bracts in the upper part, and smaller bracts below, and
  terminated by a solitary deep yellow showy flower, measuring about an
  inch and a half across; _sepals_ obovate, acute, concave or curving
  forwards at the tip, bright yellow; _petals_ yellow, also converging,
  similar to the sepals in size, form, and colouring; _lip_ larger and
  broader than the sepals and petals, spreading, three-lobed, the two
  lateral lobes erect, oblong obtuse, rising up on each side of the
  column, yellow spotted with red on the inner face, the front lobe
  plane, obovate, apiculate, unspotted yellow, with a prominent crest at
  its base. _Column_ erect, semi-terete, incurved, stained in the front
  with brownish red.

  Promenæa citrina, _Don_, _Hortus Cantabrigiensis_, ed. 13, 720 (1845);
  _London_, _Hortus Britannicus Supp._ 618 (1850); _Williams_, _Orchid
  Growers’ Manual_, ed. 4, 253, ed. 5, 281; _Rand_, _Orchids_, 377.

  Maxillaria citrina, _Lyons_, _Treatise on Orchidaceous Plants_, 176.


_Promenæa_ is a small genus of Orchids which was separated from
_Maxillaria_ about forty years ago (1843) by Lindley, who at the same
time also dissociated from it the plants respectively referred to
_Warrea_, _Paphinia_, _Lycaste_, and _Scuticaria_. Later on Reichenbach
classed _Promenæa_ as a section of _Zygopetalum_. Dr. Lindley
distinguished the group of species which he referred to _Promenæa_, and
which he regarded as fully entitled to generic rank, by the following
peculiar features, namely, their spreading sepals, their three-lobed
lip, crested or tuberculate at the base, their short semi-terete column,
and their ovate glandule with four, that is two double, sessile pollen
masses. The species then proposed were _P. stapelioides_, _P. xanthina_,
_P. lentiginosa_, _P. Rollissonii_, and _P. graminea_. To these
Reichenbach added _P. guttata_ in 1856, and _P. microptera_ in 1881.
Neither of these authorities, so far as we can trace, refer to _P.
citrina_; but, according to Don and Loudon, the plant was introduced to
our gardens in 1840, though they attribute to it the erroneous habitat
of Mexico. Our good friend, Professor Reichenbach, suggests that it is a
garden name, sometimes applied to _P. Rollissonii_ and sometimes to _P.
guttata_; but it has long been recognised as a distinct plant by English
and Continental Orchid growers, and is certainly different from the _P.
Rollissonii_ figured by Dr. Lindley; nor does it correspond with the
description of _P. guttata_, so far as the materials at hand enable us
to judge.

This, it will be seen, is a very neat-growing plant, the small
tetragonal pseudobulbs slowly creeping over the surface of the blocks on
which the plants are grown. It is, moreover, of small stature, the
leaves, which grow in pairs from the top of the pseudobulbs, rarely
exceeding three or four inches in height, and the flower-scapes
attaining even less elevation. The flowers, which are rather large for
so small a plant, being of a rich and brilliant colour, become rather
effective; and though, of course, they do not compare at all in gorgeous
beauty with those of many of the larger-flowered Orchids, they are by no
means to be despised even from the decorative point of View; indeed,
when grown on a block, as represented in the accompanying Plate, and
suspended from the roof of the house, the plant forms a very pretty and
distinct object, occupying, as it does, but a small space in which it
displays much beauty and attractiveness. The bright orange-yellow
flowers are, moreover, very freely produced, and if kept dry, continue
for a long time in a fresh and pleasing condition.

There is another species of the same habit, _Promenæa stapelioides_,
which comes into bloom about the same time as this, and in which the
flowers are spotted with dark purple, so that they appear to be nearly
black. The contrast of these two when grown and flowered on the same
block is very effective. In the noble collection of Sir Trevor Lawrence,
Bart., M.P., we saw a large pan-full of _P. citrina_ growing freely,
which had a very beautiful appearance, but we prefer to see the plant
grown on a block, as in this manner the flowers hang downwards, and are
shown off to much greater advantage. There are certain varieties to be
occasionally met with, in which the flowers are without spots on the
lip, but those which have this latter peculiarity are to be preferred,
as the two colours afford a pleasant relief.

Fibrous peat and sphagnum moss seem to suit the plant well when it is
grown in either pots or pans; but when cultivated on blocks of wood, a
little sphagnum moss only about its roots will be quite sufficient,
though if grown in this latter way it requires a more liberal and more
frequent supply of water, in order to keep the roots moist. We find the
Cattleya-house to suit it best, and we grow it suspended against a wall
at the end of the house, where it gets syringed in warm weather. The
manner in which its blooms are produced may be seen from our
Illustration, which is an excellent representation of the habit of the
plant, not only as regards its general manner of growth, but also of its
mode of flowering.

    [Illustration:  PL. 8.
    CYPRIPEDIUM STONEI.]




                          CYPRIPEDIUM STONEI.
                               [Plate 8.]
                           Native of Borneo.


  Terrestrial. _Stem_ wanting, the short erect crowns each furnished
  with numerous radical evergreen leaves, and emitting stout fleshy
  roots. _Leaves_ distichous (two-ranked), a foot or more in length,
  leathery or somewhat fleshy, oblong, obtuse, with a short recurved
  mucro, dark green above, of a paler green beneath. _Scape_ dark
  purple, issuing from the centre of the leaves and furnished with a
  sheathing bract at its base, about two feet in height, three to
  four-flowered, the pedicels subtended by green lanceolate acuminate
  bracts. _Flowers_ large, richly-coloured, measuring when spread out
  four inches in the direction of the sepals, and nine to ten inches in
  that of the petals; _dorsal sepal_ broadly cordate, acuminate, nearly
  two inches broad, white, marked in front with a bold central, and on
  each side with two or three curved lateral stripes of deep
  purple-brown, keeled behind, and there stained with purple-brown;
  _lateral sepals_ (united) ovate-acuminate, with a central and on each
  side three lateral stripes extending nearly to the base,
  greenish-white, edged with purple-brown; _petals_ set at a right angle
  to the sepals, one-fourth of an inch broad, five inches long, tapering
  gradually to the apex, decurved, greenish-white with dark purple-brown
  veins and spots, becoming wholly purple at the tip, and having near
  the base a purple margin, and a few scattered marginal purple hairs;
  _lip_ large, prominent, calceoliform, the basal portion unguiculate
  from the introflexion of the margin, greenish, the apex large,
  pouch-shaped, like the front of a shoe or slipper, dull purplish-red
  reticulately veined with darker purple. _Column_ white, with a ring of
  yellow hairs at the base, two-branched, the lower branch three-lobed,
  the later lobes bearing each a small orbicular sessile yellow anther,
  the terminal lobe forming a large white ovate fleshy disk (abortive
  third stamen) the upper or stigmatic branch cordate-obovate, convex,
  whitish, tinged with purple, and fringed at the back and sides with
  yellow hairs.

  Cypripedium Stonei, _Low_; _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5349;
  _Van Houtte_, _Flore des Serres_, xvii., t. 1792-3; _Lemaire_,
  _Illustration Horticole_, ix., p. 107; x. t. 355; _Bateman_, _2nd
  Century of Orchidaceous Plants_, t. 141; _Jennings_, _Orchids_, t. 12.


This magnificent plant is one of the most beautiful species of the genus
_Cypripedium_. Several varieties of it are known, and though they are
all good and well worth growing, that which we have selected for
illustration is the best and darkest that has come under our notice. The
plant from which our figure was taken, bloomed in the Victoria Nursery,
and had five flower-spikes, two of which have been in bloom for the past
six weeks, and are now as fresh as ever.

_Cypripedium Stonei_ was first flowered by Mr. Stone, gardener to John
Day, Esq., of High Cross, Tottenham, after whom it has been named. It
was for a long period a very rare species, and, indeed now, though small
plants may be purchased for a moderate sum, yet large specimens are
scarce and valuable. It makes a fine show plant, its lasting qualities
being a great recommendation to it, both from an exhibition and
decorative point of view.

The plant is a native of Borneo, and was introduced to this country by
the Messrs. Low, of Clapton. It produces dark green foliage of about
twelve or in some of the varieties we have seen as much as fifteen
inches in length. From the centre of this tuft of leaves the
flower-spikes are produced and rise to a height of about two feet, each
bearing three or four of its large slipper-shaped blossoms, which are
the most exact representations of a shoe or slipper of those of any of
the species, and most completely justify the trivial name of the genus,
Lady’s Slipper. The sepals are large, white, striped on the veins or
nerves, with dark purple, and tinged with yellow; the petals are five
inches in length, and are yellowish, streaked and blotched with purple;
and the lip is large and of a dull reddish-purple, veined with deeper
purple-red. It is of free-blooming habit, and when the growths are
strong it produces a flower-spike from each crown, but it takes some
considerable time to complete its growth before it sends forth its
spikes; indeed, it begins to grow soon after its blossoms have faded.
The plant having no thick fleshy bulbs from which to derive support,
requires a more continuous supply of moisture than many other Orchids.
The roots are coarse and fleshy, and should in consequence be supplied
with a stronger soil than is required by some of the other kinds. We
find it to thrive best in good fibrous loam, with a small quantity of
charcoal, and a little leaf-mould or peat, all being well mixed
together, giving the pots good drainage, but not so much as is required
in the case of _Cattleyas_, for example. As it is a strong rooting
plant, it is best grown in a pot, and should be a little elevated above
the rim. We have found the East India house to supply the most suitable
atmospheric conditions in which to cultivate it; here it should be
placed on the side-tables near the light, but out of the sun. The finest
specimen we have seen exhibited was staged by Mr. Child, gardener to
Mrs. Torr, Garbrand Hall, Ewell, Surrey, at the South Kensington Show,
in 1878.

There is a very distinct variety of this plant called _Cypripedium
Stonei platytænium_, of which a figure has been lately published in Mr.
Warner’s _Select Orchidaceous Plants_, 3 ser., t. 16. Of this form,
living plants were till recently only to be found in the collection of
John Day, Esq., but they were distributed when that collection was
recently dispersed by auction sales, and were purchased at high prices
by Baron Schröder and Sir Trevor Lawrence, Bart., M.P., in whose
collections they may now be seen. This variety is just like _C. Stonei_
in its growth, and the flowers are closely similar, the chief difference
being, that the petals are shorter and broader, and resemble those of
_C. superbiens_.

    [Illustration:  PL. 9-10.
    LÆLIA PURPURATA WILLIAMSII.]




                      LÆLIA PURPURATA WILLIAMSII.
                             [Plates 9-10.]
                   Native of St. Catherine’s, Brazil.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ (or pseudobulbs) clavate-oblong, monophyllous, two
  feet or more in height, somewhat furrowed when mature. _Leaves_
  coriaceous, evergreen, narrowly oblong, emarginate, dark green.
  _Scape_ three to four-flowered, issuing from a stout sheathing oblong
  bract or spathe, four to five inches long. _Flowers_ large, and very
  handsome; measuring eight inches across, of a delicate rose colour,
  with a purple-crimson lip; _sepals_ linear-lanceolate, acute, of a
  pale rosy tint, pencilled with simple rosy-purple longitudinal lines;
  _petals_ oblong-lanceolate, obtuse, of a beautiful delicate rose
  colour, pencilled with divergent forked lines of deeper purple; _lip_
  (labellum) three-lobed, the lateral lobes obsolete, convolute around
  the column, the front lobe large, broad, and roundish, of a rich dark
  crimson-magenta, the tip paler and reticulately veined, and the throat
  yellow, beautifully veined with crimson-magenta. _Column_ scarcely
  reaching to the middle of the convolute base of the lip.

  Lælia purpurata Williamsii, _Hort._; _Williams’ Orchid Grower’s
  Manual_, ed. 4, 196; ed. 5, 208.


The species, of which this is one of the finest known varieties, and the
genus _Lælia_ to which it belongs, together with the neighbouring genus
_Cattleya_, are placed by the great Orchidist, Reichenbach, in his
amplified genus _Bletia_, so that the _Lælia purpurata_ of Lindley, in
_Paxton’s Flower Garden_, becomes the _Bletia purpurata_ of Reichenbach
in _Walpers’ Annales_, vi. 423. The name of _Lælia_ is, however, that
which is adopted amongst cultivators of Orchids.

The _Lælia_ which we have now to describe, was named many years ago in
the _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, when it was exhibited at the Crystal
Palace and received its present appellation. The plant now represented
was flowered at the Victoria and Paradise Nurseries, but has now passed
into the select collection of Baron Schröder, of The Dell, near Staines.
It was a wonderfully strong plant, and produced two spikes of its highly
coloured blossoms, which led all those who saw it in its beauty, to
pronounce it to be the finest _Lælia_ they had ever witnessed. Our
artist has given a good representation of the plant and its blossoms.
The club-shaped stems and foliage stood thirty inches in height, and
were provided with very strong sheathing bracts whence the flower-spikes
issued, each bearing four flowers, which were individually eight inches
in diameter. It has bloomed with us in the same style for two successive
years. The plant that we flowered some years ago was not so large as
that now figured, the reason being that it was not so strong a specimen,
and, therefore, not able to produce such fine flowers. This is
sufficient evidence of the advance the plants make before they get to
their full strength and vigour. In the variety before us the sepals and
petals are of a delicate rose, veined with a beautiful dark tint of the
same colour, while the lip is very broad, large, and splendidly
coloured, the prominent parts of a rich dark crimson-magenta, paler and
veiny at the tip, and beautifully veined with crimson on the yellow
ground-colour of the throat. The blooming season is in May and June, the
flowers continuing in perfection for three or four weeks, if kept free
from damp and in a dry place. We have a house set aside specially for
Orchids when in flower, and in it very little moisture is used, by which
means we seldom get the flowers spotted or prematurely decayed.

There is another fine form of _Lælia purpurata_ with white sepals and
petals that are quite flat, not at all recurved; this variety has a rich
dark crimson-magenta lip. We exhibited this form with nine flower spikes
at the Regent’s Park Exhibition, and it produced a grand effect. There
are many other fine varieties.

_Lælia purpurata_ when well cultivated is a good looking plant, and even
when not in bloom it is an object of attraction, on account of its
stately evergreen foliage. It is a native of Brazil, and is found
growing on the branches of trees on the outskirts of the forests where
the plants get light, and are yet shaded from the burning sun. They are
best grown in the Cattleya-house, and will thrive either in pots or
baskets, but we find the pot system the best, as they are strong growing
plants, and require ample space to bring them to perfection. They are
the better for being moved about, especially if they are required for
exhibition. There are no more showy Orchids for exhibition purposes, and
this is especially true of such varieties as that now before us.

We find that they thrive best in good fibrous peat, and some live
sphagnum moss on a part of the surface; when in a growing state the moss
keeps them moist without too much water being given whilst they are
making their growth. In watering them be careful not to wet the young
shoots. The pots should be three parts filled with drainage, which must
be formed of broken pots and lumps of charcoal intermixed. The plants
must be elevated about two inches above the rim of the pot. The best
time to pot them is after they have done blooming just as they begin to
make new growths, and before the roots start, when they will soon
commence to work into the clean sweet peat. If the plant is in a
sufficiently large pot, and the soil about it is sweet and clean, it
will not require re-potting, but it will benefit the plants greatly to
give them some fresh fibrous peat just before they begin to root, as the
old soil is apt to become hard and inert through constant watering. They
require to be kept moist during the growing season, but must not even
then be soddened with water. In winter only just sufficient must be
given them to keep them moist, and to prevent their stems and leaves
from shriveling.

    [Illustration:  PL. 11.
    PHALÆNOPSIS AMABILIS DAYANA.]




                      PHALÆNOPSIS AMABILIS DAYANA.
                              [Plate 11.]
                   Native of the Eastern Archipelago.


  Epiphytal. _Stem_ none, or consisting of a short crown furnished with
  rigid fleshy leaves, and emitting succulent roots, which latter are
  flattened, and cling to any congenial object with which they come in
  contact. _Leaves_ large, thick and coriaceous, distichous, oblong,
  obliquely retuse, dark green above, purple beneath. _Scape_ long,
  drooping, issuing from the base of the plant, or the leaf axils, and
  bearing the large moth-like flowers in a two-ranked raceme. _Flowers_
  large, pure opaque white, spreading, the lip beautifully coloured;
  _sepals_ oblong-obtuse, white, the lower ones prettily dotted with
  carmine; _petals_ larger and broader, sub-rhomboid, narrowed towards
  the base, pure white; _lip_ furnished with a callus at the base,
  smaller than the petals, three-lobed, the lateral lobes ovate obtuse,
  ascending or incurved, yellowish along the antical margin and dotted
  with carmine-crimson near the base, the central lobe trowel-shaped,
  carmine-crimson across the base and at the edge, and marked with a
  central crimson stripe; the lip is concave, bearing at the narrowed
  apex two incurved twisted white cirrhi. _Column_ semi-terete,
  recumbent on the ovary.

  Phalænopsis amabilis Dayana, _Hort._


The genus _Phalænopsis_ belongs to the tribe _Vandeæ_, which is
distinguished amongst those with waxy pollen-masses, by having these
attached to a distinct caudicle, united to a deciduous stigmatic gland.
It no doubt comprises several of our finest Orchids, which are prized no
less on account of the graceful development of their inflorescence than
for the attractive white blossoms of the more familiar species. Our
drawing of the charming _Phalænopsis amabilis Dayana_ here figured, was
taken from a fine specimen in the collection of W. Lee, Esq., of
Downside, Leatherhead, who was kind enough to allow us to publish an
illustration of it. The variety is very rare; indeed, we believe this is
the only specimen known to be in cultivation in this country. It was
named in compliment to John Day, Esq., of Tottenham, from whose
collection it was obtained by Mr. Lee. From the markings about the base
of the lip it will be seen to be very distinct, though it is no doubt a
form of _P. amabilis_, with which it agrees in foliage and in the
general character of the flowers, but differs in the distinct markings
just referred to. The plant grows to about the same size as _P.
amabilis_.

There is at Downside a grand collection of _Phalænopsids_, which are
especially well managed by Mr. Woolford, the gardener. They are great
favourites with Mr. Lee, and he has built a house to meet their special
wants. This is undoubtedly a good plan to adopt where there is such a
fine and comprehensive set of plants as are to be found in this
establishment, since they require different treatment to most other
Orchids. They have thick fleshy leaves, and the stems of the plant are
also fleshy, while, unlike many Orchids, they have no thick pseudobulbs
from which to derive support; hence it follows that they require more
moisture than many others. We do not, however, agree with giving them so
much as we often see supplied. One great advantage of having a separate
house for them is that their individual treatment and wants can be more
carefully studied and more exactly met.

We have seen _Phalænopsids_ grown well amongst other East Indian
Orchids. For instance, we exhibited a plant so grown of _Phalænopsis
grandiflora_ for ten successive years at the Chiswick and Regent’s Park
Exhibitions, and at several shows during each year, and it generally
bore from sixty to seventy blossoms. This was the variety imported from
Java, which we consider the best, as it produces more flowers than the
variety from Borneo. We see that growers now-a-days are obliged to put
several plants together in order to make a specimen fit for exhibition.
There were others who about that time also exhibited these large plants,
and, amongst them Mr. Kinghorn showed at Chiswick a wonderful specimen,
bearing the best flower-spike we have ever seen.

_Phalænopsis amabilis Dayana_ requires the same treatment as _P.
grandiflora_ and _P. amabilis_, and will do either in a pot, basket, or
pan, suspended from the roof. It will also thrive on the side stages,
but in this case requires to be elevated so that the roots can hang
free, for they are abundant rooting plants. If suspended from the roof
the plants have more room to throw out their thick fleshy roots, and in
this way they approach nearer to the manner in which they grow in their
native habitats, for they are found on the branches and stems of trees,
where they obtain a free circulation of air. When thus suspended they
get without restraint the fresh air that circulates through the house.
They can also be cultivated on blocks, but under these circumstances
they will require to be more freely supplied with moisture. These are
plants that like plenty of light, but they must be shielded from the sun
by shading. The best material to grow them in is sphagnum moss, with
good drainage, and they require to be kept moist all the year round. In
warm weather they of course require more than in winter, when just a
sufficient quantity to keep the moss in a moist condition will be all
that they will need. It is imperative never to allow water to reach the
heart of the plant, for that will sometimes induce it to rot, and will
often cause the leaves to go spotted.

The plants must, of necessity, be kept free from insects. Sometimes the
thrips will attack them, but this should be cleaned off. To be
thoroughly successful with Orchids they require constant watching.
Cockroaches are a great pest to all those that throw out thick fleshy
roots, which they injure by gnawing them off, thereby weakening the
constitution of the plant. J. S. Bockett, Esq., of Stamford Hill, has
one of the finest grown collections of _Phalænopsis_ we have ever seen,
but this, of course, has been in process of formation for years, and the
plants have become large established specimens.

    [Illustration:  PL. 12.
    ONCIDIUM GARDNERI.]




                           ONCIDIUM GARDNERI.
                              [Plate 12.]
                Native of the Organ Mountains of Brazil.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ oblong-ovate, furrowed, about two inches in
  height, dark green, purplish beneath. _Leaves_ oblong-lanceolate,
  acute, coriaceous, about six inches long, growing two together from
  the apex of the pseudobulbs. _Scape_ one and a half foot high,
  including the panicle of handsome flowers, lateral, that is, springing
  from the base of the pseudobulbs. _Flowers_ showy, of medium size,
  deliciously fragrant; _sepals_ oblong, acute, the lateral ones
  semi-connate; _petals_ twice as large as the sepals, roundish in
  outline, clawed at the base, the edges undulated, and as well as the
  bars across the sepals of a light chestnut or bronzy brown colour with
  a narrow margin of pale yellow; _lip_ large, three-lobed, the middle
  lobe large, transversely emarginate, bright yellow, with a belt of
  confluent parallel oblong chestnut brown blotches just within the
  margin, the lateral lobes auriculæform, obsolete, yellow; the crests
  of the lip consist of two pairs of tubercles with the intermediate
  space warted. _Column_ furnished with dwarf roundish wings.

  Oncidium Gardneri, _Lindley_, _London Journal of Botany_, ii., 662;
  _Id._ _Folia Orchidacea_, art. _Oncidium_, 19; _Reichenbach fil._, in
  _Walpers’ Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, vi. 728.


This charming Orchid is very nearly related to _Oncidium curtum_, _O.
prætextum_, and _O. amictum_. It belongs to an extensive genus of
Vandeous Orchids, many of the species of which are exceedingly beautiful
on account of the brilliancy of their flowers, which are mostly of a
bright yellow colour, often prettily spotted, and generally produced in
graceful spikes or panicles. No collection should be without some of the
best and most ornamental of them. The figure which we now publish
represents a very charming Brazilian species, one of the best forms of
the plant we have seen. Our drawing was made from a specimen in the
select and varied collection of W. Vanner, Esq., of Chislehurst, who was
kind enough to permit our artist to avail himself of it. This collection
occupies several houses which are respectively filled with species
belonging to the different groups or classes, and among which are some
very rare specimens, all well cultivated by Mr. Milford, the gardener,
who, for many years has been a successful grower of Orchids.

_Oncidium Gardneri_ is a compact growing plant, furnished with dark
green pseudobulbs, which are from two to three inches in height. The
foliage is also dark green in colour, and about six inches in length.
The flowers are very freely produced in branching spikes or panicles,
and are generally developed in June and July, lasting for several weeks
in perfection. The sepals and petals are brown, narrowly margined with
pale yellow. The lip is large, of a bright golden-yellow colour,
margined with bright brown oblong parallel blotches. The flowers,
moreover, are deliciously scented. There are many varieties of this
plant, all of which are worth growing, since they take up but little
space, and when grown in quantity, produce a good effect. We saw about
fifty spikes of the different varieties, some in bloom, and others
showing, in the collection of C. G. Hill, Esq., of Arnot Hill, near
Nottingham, and we shall not soon forget the effect produced, as the
group of plants appeared to be one mass of bloom. By cultivating plants
of this character space may be economised, since they grow as freely on
blocks as in baskets. We also find them to thrive well in small pans
suspended from the roof of the Cattleya-house or in any situation
affording them the same temperature, with very slight shading from the
sun. They are best grown near the glass, so that they may get all the
light possible. As a root medium, a mixture of good sphagnum moss and
fibrous peat suits them best, but the plants must have good drainage,
since they must be kept moist during the growing season, though when at
rest a more limited supply will suffice—just sufficient being given to
keep the bulbs plump, for on the other hand, it is not a plant that
likes to be dried up. The bulbs sometimes shrivel when they flower too
freely; if this is observed do not allow the blossoms to remain too long
on the plants, as they will keep a good time in water when cut from the
plant. Being of a graceful character they are well adapted for the
decoration of drawing-room stands, in which, if intermixed with foliage
and other flowers, they help to produce a very charming effect. Indeed
no flowers are so useful as Orchids for decorative purposes, as they
last so long when cut.


Lælia Dominiana rosea.—This is the finest hybrid _Lælia_ that has come
under our notice. It is the result of a cross between _Cattleya
Dowiana_, and _C. exoniensis_, and the parentage is very evident in the
novel form thus obtained. The lip is like that of _C. Dowiana_, of a
rich purple-crimson, crisped at the margin; the sepals and petals are of
a pale lilac colour. It is a most beautiful _Lælia_, and is named in
honour of Mr. Dominy, who has been most successful in raising seedling
Orchids. There have been many wonderful hybrids brought out by the
Messrs. Veitch and Sons, through the indefatigable exertions of Mr.
Dominy, who has long been known as one of the oldest and most successful
of Orchid growers, and whose name will be kept in remembrance as long as
Orchids are cultivated.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 13.
    DENDROBIUM SUAVISSIMUM.]




                        DENDROBIUM SUAVISSIMUM.
                              [Plate 13.]
                           Native of Burmah.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ (or pseudobulbs) about a foot long,
  cuneately-fusiform, tapering below into a longish stalk-like base,
  bluntly angulate, bearing one or two pairs of leaves at the top, and
  invested below with close ovate membranaceous bracts. _Leaves_
  somewhat coriaceous, oblong-ligulate, cuneate at the base and acute at
  the apex. _Flower-spikes_ ten to twelve inches long, bracteate at the
  base, terminal or nearly terminal, produced freely on the two-year-old
  stems. _Flowers_ large, showy, numerous, of a brilliant yellow;
  _sepals_ ligulate acute, bright golden yellow; _petals_ broader,
  cuneately-oblong, obtusely-acute, of the same colour as the sepals;
  _lip_ (labellum) deep bright yellow, marked on the disk with a broad
  curved band of rich dark sanguineous purple, almost black, cucullate,
  cuneate-oblong at the base, where it is folded over the column,
  roundish and emarginate in front, undulate and ciliolate at the
  margin, densely asperulous with erect acute papillæ forming a close
  crispy covering over the surface.

  Dendrobium suavissimum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S., i. 406; v. 756.


This fine Dendrobe, of which Reichenbach remarks:—“I believe it is one
of the best _Dendrobia_ ever imported,” was introduced in 1873 by Mr.
Low, of Clapton, as recorded in the _Gardeners’ Chronicle_ for 1874
(N.S., i. 406), where it was first described. It is again referred to in
the same publication in 1876 (N.S., v. 756), where the German Professor
remarks:—“The species stands indeed, as has been stated before, close to
_Dendrobium chrysotoxum_. The flowers are smaller, the fringe is made by
much shorter papillæ, the chin is shorter, the petals are narrower, the
lip does not expand to an open mass, but its lateral parts keep bent
over the base, thus forming a cucullate body so as to allow the
beautiful dark blackish spot to be seen, and which contrasts so well
with the deep yellow of the flower. There are also a few blackish
streaks on each side of the base of the lip.”

_Dendrobium suavissimum_ is one of the most beautiful species of the
yellow-flowered section of this vast genus, and one that is much admired
and sought after by Orchid growers. The accompanying plate is a good
representation of the plant, and from this it will be seen that it is
one of the most attractive of summer-flowering Orchids. Our sketch was
taken from a specimen exhibited by us during the present year, at the
Royal Botanic Society’s Garden in the Regent’s Park.

Formerly this was a very rare plant, but within the last few years it
has been sent home in considerable quantities by collectors, and it has
in consequence become comparatively cheap. In growth it resembles
_Dendrobium chrysotoxum_, but the flowers are much more showy; in _D.
chrysotoxum_ they are wholly yellow, whereas in this species there is a
large sanguineous purple blotch on the lip, forming a striking contrast
to the rich golden yellow of the sepals and petals; in addition to this
they are sweet-scented. The plant is of free-flowering habit, and when
well-grown produces finely-developed flower-spikes. We have seen as many
as three spikes proceeding from a single stem.

In habit of growth _Dendrobium suavissimum_ is very compact. The stems
or pseudobulbs are about a foot in height, and furnished with one or two
pairs of dark green leaves at the apex. The flower-spikes proceed from
the tops of the two-year-old bulbs, and average from ten to twelve
inches in length. The stems will sometimes produce spikes for several
years in succession. The flowers last from two to three weeks in
perfection if kept from damp.

Like other Dendrobiums, this species is found growing on the trunks and
branches of trees in positions where it gets plenty of light and air.
With us it thrives well grown in a basket suspended near the roof, so as
to obtain all the light and air possible; the bulbs thus become well
matured. The best material for growing it in is sound sweet fibrous
peat, with a good supply of drainage. The plants should be watered
liberally at the roots during the period of growth, which is after they
have done blooming. The temperature that suits them best is that of the
East India-house while they are making their growth; but when the growth
is completed very little water should be given them until they begin to
show their spikes in spring, when it may be increased, as it will assist
them to produce stronger spikes. The plant is propagated by division;
two or more old bulbs should be taken off with a young growth in front.
Insects should be well looked after, and when found be speedily removed.

    [Illustration:  PL. 14.
    TRICHOPILIA SUAVIS ALBA.]




                        TRICHOPILIA SUAVIS ALBA.
                              [Plate 14.]
                       Native of Central America.


  Epiphytal, _Pseudobulbs_ roundish-oblong or obcordate, thin, _i.e._,
  very much compressed, clustered, monophyllous. _Leaves_ broadly
  oblong, acute, leathery in texture, almost sessile, of a pale green
  colour. _Scapes_ radical, two to four-flowered, pendent. _Flowers_
  large, showy, and fragrant, each emerging from the axil of a thin
  ovate bract. _Sepals_ linear-lanceolate, acute, somewhat undulated,
  spreading, and, as well as the similarly-formed _petals_, of a pure
  white colour; _lip_ large, rolled up closely at the base, suddenly
  expanded upwards so as to become funnel-shaped, and then spread out
  into a large oblique limb, which is three-lobed, with the edges wavy
  and crisped, the middle lobe larger, slightly deflexed and emarginate
  or bilobed: _Column_ elongate, terete, bearing at the back of the
  anther a hood of three fimbriated lobes.

  Trichopilia suavis, _Lindley_, in _Paxton’s Flower Garden_, i. 44; 53,
  t. 11; _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 4654; _Van Houtte_, _Flore
  des Serres_, viii. 761; _Lemaire_, _Jardin Fleuriste_, iii. 277;
  _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, iii.
  553, et vi. 681.

  _Var._ ALBA: flowers pure white, the lip with a yellow blotch in the
  throat.

  Trichopilia suavis alba, _Hort._


This plant belongs to a small genus of Vandeous Orchids, some of the
species of which are exceedingly pretty, and well worthy of a place in
every collection. Dr. Lindley calls _Trichopilia suavis_ “a delicious
Orchid,” and says that “the flowers emit the most delicate odour of
hawthorn.” The fragrant and richly spotted flowers make it a great
favourite amongst growers, and no doubt it is one of the best and most
showy of the species yet known. The variety _alba_, of which we have now
the pleasure of publishing an authentic figure, the first which has
appeared, is new to cultivation, and is also extremely rare. Our plate
was prepared from a specimen which flowered in the fine collection of
Dr. G. Boddaert, of Ghent, Belgium, who kindly allowed us to have a
drawing made from it.

_Trichopilia suavis alba_ was imported, with the typical _T. suavis_,
and is a compact evergreen plant, with foliage attaining from six to ten
inches in height, and three inches in width, and of a light green
colour. The pendent flower-scapes are produced from the base of the
bulbs, and bear two or three, or sometimes four, flowers, which thus
hang over the sides of the pan or basket in which the plant is
cultivated. When suspended from the roof of the house they thus have a
very charming appearance. The sepals and petals are pure white; the lip
is white, with a pale yellow stain in the throat. The plant blossoms
during May and June, and lasts about two weeks in perfection. We have
flowered this variety during the present year, and it was very much
admired by every one who saw it.

_Trichopilia suavis alba_ was exhibited by J. S. Bockett, Esq., of
Stamford Hill, at one of the meetings of the Royal Horticultural
Society, and was awarded a First Class Certificate of Merit.

The Cattleya house is the best position for the plant, but it should be
placed at the coolest end. It will flourish either in a basket or pot,
in a compost of fibrous peat, with good drainage, but it must be well
elevated above the rim, so that the flowers may hang down according to
their natural habit. Propagation is effected by division of the plant
after blooming; two or three bulbs should be severed from the original
plant, or more if a larger specimen is desired.


Aërides odoratum majus.—This fine old Orchid was shown by Mrs. Arbuthnot
at the Chislehurst Exhibition, on the 16th of July, and in this case it
was a most wonderful example of good cultivation. The plant was one mass
of its beautiful racemes of flowers, about fifty in number, many of them
measuring fifteen inches in length. The flowers are white, tipped with
pink, and are produced in long graceful spikes which overhang the
foliage and produce a most charming effect. The perfume given off by
this variety is very delightful, and was in this case most refreshing to
those who passed by, many of whom wondered where the pleasant odour came
from, as it was shown among the stove and greenhouse plants. This plant
was two and a half feet in diameter, and three feet in height. Great
credit is due to Mr. Mitchell, the gardener, for his skill in
cultivating so fine a specimen. We often wonder why this plant is not
more popular at our exhibitions, especially as it is easy to grow,
taking very few years to make a good specimen, and being purchasable in
small sizes for a few shillings. When not in bloom, it is, moreover, an
attractive plant.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 15.
    VANDA PARISHII.]




                            VANDA PARISHII.
                              [Plate 15.]
                          Native of Moulmein.


  Epiphytal. _Plant_ evergreen, dwarf. _Stem_ a span high,
  stout-growing, densely leafy. _Leaves_ distichous, broadly
  ligulate-obtuse, with an unequal bilobed apex, very stout and fleshy
  in texture. _Scape_ stiff, erect, bearing a spike of several showy
  blossoms. _Flowers_ large, distinct in character, prettily spotted;
  _sepals_ and _petals_ cuneate-oblong, acute, somewhat undulated, of a
  greenish-yellow colour, decorated with numerous round reddish-brown
  spots, white inside at the base; _lip_ furnished with linear-ligulate
  auricles at the base, and produced into a short gibbous spur, white,
  with a pair of orange-coloured stripes, the larger anterior part
  violaceous, rhomboid, gibbous below the apex, with a keel along the
  median line, and a violet-coloured conical callus at the base.
  _Column_ white, the caudicle ligulate, the glandule triangular.

  Vanda Parishii, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, 1870,
  890.


This glorious thing, as Professor Reichenbach calls it, was first
discovered by the Rev. C. Parish in 1862, and then lost sight of, but
was rediscovered in 1870, from which discovery, we presume, the first
plants were obtained by Mr. S. Low, of the Clapton Nursery; since then
we have received living plants of it on several occasions, and the plant
now figured was from one of these importations. It is a small and
distinct growing _Vanda_, and is well worthy of a place in every
collection on account of its compact habit of growth, which resembles
that of a _Phalænopsis_. The Vandas are for the most part large growers,
but, as will be seen from the accompanying figure, _Vanda Parishii_ is
an exception to the general rule. Our plate was prepared from a plant
which bloomed in the collection of the Right Hon. J. Chamberlain, M.P.,
of Birmingham—a gentleman who is making a grand collection of Orchids,
and is a great admirer of them. The plant above referred to was a
well-grown specimen, bearing a good spike of flowers.

The leaves are about eight inches in length by four inches in breadth,
and of a lively green colour; and the flower-spike reaches from ten to
twelve inches in length, the flowers being as large as those of _Vanda
gigantea_ and _V. lissochiloides_. The sepals and petals are
greenish-yellow, freely spotted with reddish-brown; the base of the lip,
which is keeled, is white, the front lobe violet-mauve, faintly margined
with white. Altogether it is a very distinct species, and is very
strongly scented, with a peculiar odour; it lasts for several weeks in
bloom.

_Vanda Parishii_ requires about the same treatment as other Vandas, and
should be grown in the East India-house, in sphagnum moss, with plenty
of drainage. It would appear never to attain more than about a foot in
height, being unusually short and stout in growth. It is best grown in a
basket or pot suspended from the roof, and should be well shaded from
the sun. It revels in a good supply of water during the growing period,
which extends over summer and autumn; but in winter only just sufficient
water should be given to keep the moss damp, for if allowed to become
over-dry it will shrivel, having no pseudobulbs to support it. Thrips
and scale are sometimes found on this plant; these should be diligently
searched for and destroyed, as the leaves, being of a fleshy nature,
would otherwise soon become disfigured by the onslaught of these pests.


Orchids at Arnot Hill.—We append a few notes on the Orchids at Arnot
Hill, near Nottingham, the residence of C. G. Hill, Esq., a gentleman
who is forming a fine collection of these plants, and one which we have
no doubt will in time take a foremost rank, as Mr. Hill is specially
fond of good Orchids, and intends to grow only those which are most
worthy of cultivation. There is a fine range of houses built to suit the
cool, the intermediate, and the East Indian kinds, and the arrangements
are all that can be desired, having been made the chief study. Of the
genus _Odontoglossum_, we found at the time of our visit, some few
months since, there was a large collection, including some hundreds of
plants of _O. Alexandræ_ and _O. Pescatorei_, amongst which were many
fine specimens. There was also a fine lot of Masdevallias; the
Bull’s-blood variety of _M. Harryana_ was in splendid condition, and
there were many other fine varieties. We noticed a house full of
_Oncidium Gardneri_ mixed with _O. prætextum_ and _O. curtum_, the
plants bearing about fifty spikes, the greater part of which were in
bloom, the flowers deliciously fragrant, and presenting a beautiful
picture, as the bright yellow lip with its definite margin of brown
shows off the flowers to great advantage. In the Cattleya house there
were many fine plants which were rooting and growing well. We noticed a
good specimen plant of the new _Cattleya Trianæ Russelliana_, also of
the rare _C. exoniensis_, of the beautiful _C. Reineckiana_, of the best
variety of _C. labiata_ showing flower-sheaths, and many others.
_Oncidium incurvum_ was beautifully in bloom, and with its snow-white
lip had a very pretty appearance.

In the next house we noticed three good plants of _Dendrochilum
filiforme_ finely in flower; one plant had fifty of its graceful spikes
of yellow blossoms hanging among the foliage, and the other two plants
were equally good.

In the adjoining house there were many fine East Indian Orchids. We
noticed four plants of the rare _Aërides Schröderi_, and a wonderful
variety of _A. Lobbii_ in full bloom, with a fine branching spike—one of
the best we have seen, and one of which we hope at some future time to
furnish our readers with a figure. There was a good collection of East
Indian Orchids being got together, and from the appearance and health of
the young stock they seemed likely to thrive well. We were glad to see
this class of Orchids so well appreciated, as there can be no doubt that
the East Indian kinds are among the richest and finest of the family,
and they will flourish in a lower temperature than most people
imagine.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 16.
    CATTELYA GUTTATA LEOPOLDII.]




                      CATTLEYA GUTTATA LEOPOLDII.
                              [Plate 16.]
             Native of the Island of St. Catherine, Brazil.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ (or pseudobulbs) elongate, fusiform, many-jointed,
  two to two and a half feet in height, bearing a pair of leaves at the
  apex. _Leaves_ broadly-oblong obtuse, dark green, coriaceous. _Scape_
  terminal, issuing from a short ovate acute ancipitous spathe developed
  between the leaves on the more vigorous stems, and bearing a
  many-flowered raceme, with small lance-shaped bracts. _Flowers_
  fleshy, in dense racemes, “sometimes as large as a man’s head;”
  _sepals_ cuneate-oblong acute, the lateral ones subfalcate, of a light
  cinnamon or orange-tinted brown, spotted thickly with crimson;
  _petals_ similar in form and colour, but rather broader and wavy;
  _lip_ three-lobed, the lateral lobes semi-ovate, acute in front,
  rolled over the column, the middle lobe cuneate-flabellate and
  bilobed, of a bright magenta colour, the disk tuberculate with lines
  of elevated papillae.

  Cattleya guttata Leopoldii, _Linden and Reichenbach fil._,
  _Pescatorea_, t. 43.

  Cattleya Leopoldii, _Hort. Verschaffelt_; _Lemaire_, _Illustration
  Horticole_, ii. 69.

  Epidendrum elatius, var., _Reichenbach fil._, _MSS._; _Id._, in
  _Walpers’ Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, vi. 319.


This noble plant is remarkable for the large mass of richly-coloured
flagrant blossoms which terminates the flower-scape, and is very much
superior to the old _Cattleya guttata_, which was introduced to our
collections some fifty years ago, and of which a fine figure was
published in the _Transactions of the Horticultural Society_, ix. t. 8.
The variety _Leopoldii_ differs from the type, in its much larger
flowers, and in the rich olive or reddish-brown colour of its sepals and
petals, which are freely spotted with dark crimson. _C. guttata
Leopoldii_ is, moreover, of much more recent introduction than the type,
having been imported to the gardens of Belgium by M. Ambroise
Verschaffelt, through his collector, M. Devos, in 1850. It was by him
dedicated to his Majesty the late King of the Belgians. As will be seen
from our illustration, it is a very great improvement on the typical
form. We are indebted to H. Shaw, Esq., of Buxton, for the opportunity
of securing our figure, the plant having flowered in his choice and
valuable collection during the month of August in the present year,
producing a spike of eleven fine flowers, each measuring three inches in
diameter. This must be regarded as a very valuable Orchid, since it
blossoms during the late summer months, when flowers are comparatively
scarce in our Orchid houses; while for exhibition purposes, again, it is
of great value.

The plant now before us is a strong grower, like _Cattleya guttata_, and
sometimes produces as many as thirty flowers in a spike. A plant bearing
a spike of this noble character was exhibited some years ago by Mr.
Page, then gardener to the late W. Leaf, Esq., of Streatham, and was a
most wonderful object. The stems grow from twenty to thirty inches in
height, and are furnished at the apex with a pair of broad leathery
leaves of a dark green colour. It produces its flowers from the top of
the bulb after it has finished its growth. The sepals and petals are of
a lively cinnamon-brown, spotted with rich deep crimson; while the lip
is of a bright magenta, with the basal lobes of a paler rose colour. The
blossoms last some two or three weeks in perfection.

_Cattleya guttata Leopoldii_ requires the same treatment as that
recommended for other Cattleyas under Plates 3 and 6. Being a
tall-growing plant, pot culture will be found to suit it best.


M. Massange’s Orchids.—Château de Baillonville, the country seat of
Mons. D. Massange de Louvrex, is situated in the Ardennes, about 6 miles
from Marche, and some 80 miles from Brussels. The collection of Orchids
at the Château is very large, one of the finest in Belgium. In the house
devoted to East Indian Orchids there are some grand specimens of Vandas,
Aërides, and Saccolabiums. During a visit in July last, we noticed in
bloom a very fine variety of _Vanda tricolor planilabris_, the flowers
of which were very large, with fine broad sepals and petals, the
markings being well defined and the colour bright. Here was also a grand
plant of _V. Cathcartii_, about four feet high, in perfect health.
Cypripediums are, moreover, treated with great success in this house;
indeed, we noticed some plants of _C. caudatum_ with extraordinary
growths upon them, one plant having leaves as much as eighteen inches
long, and quite distinct in the character of its growth, being almost
erect. In the Cattleya house were some fine examples of _Cattleya
labiata_, the true autumn-flowering variety; also _C. Warnerii_ in
abundance, and _C. Mendelii_. _Zygopetalum Gautieri_, the best variety,
with dark blue flowers, was also open. _Cælogyne Massangeana_, had a
spike of twenty-three flowers; this species is a grand subject for
treating as a basket plant, the spikes being of a drooping character; we
have seen it bearing as many as twenty-seven flowers on a spike. There
were, moreover, in the same house, some enormous plants of _Cattleya
Trianæ_, marvels of cultivation, with good specimens of _Lælia elegans_,
_L. anceps_, _L. Perrinii alba_, _L. elegans prasiata_, _L.
Stelzneriana_, _Cattleya Dowiana_, &c., all in perfect health, and doing
well. In the Odontoglossum houses there was not much in flower, but the
plants were looking remarkably well and making enormous bulbs. Here we
noticed the largest plant of _Restrepia antennifera_ we have ever seen;
the plant probably measured as much as eighteen inches across, and had
some hundreds of leaves. Masdevallias were well represented, and there
were some good varieties in flower: amongst others was a grand plant of
_M. macrura_, as well as _M. Houtteana_ and _M. trochilus_, forming good
specimens. We saw a splendid specimen of _Odontoglossum citrosmum
roseum_ with nine flower-spikes, a marvel of good cultivation.
Altogether, we believe, this is the most select collection of Orchids in
Belgium, and great credit is due to Mr. Wilkie, the gardener, for the
way in which he cultivates his plants; his employer, however, spares no
expense in providing the appurtenances necessary to good cultivation.—H.
Williams.

    [Illustration:  PL. 17.
    PESCATOREA KLABOCHORUM.]




                        PESCATOREA KLABOCHORUM.
                              [Plate 17.]
                           Native of Ecuador.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ none or consisting of a short crown or growing
  point from which the leaves and stout fibrous roots proceed. _Leaves_
  tufted, numerous, imbricated at the base, erect or spreading,
  lanceolate, acute, twelve to fifteen inches long, and about two inches
  wide, deep green above, paler beneath, thin but firm in texture.
  _Flowers_ large and showy, measuring about three inches in diameter,
  the peduncles springing from the axils of the lower leaves; _dorsal
  sepal_ obovate-oblong, acute, about an inch and a half long, white in
  the lower half, and of a velvety chocolate purple in the upper
  portion; _lateral sepals_ more distinctly oblong, being less narrowed
  at the base, acute, and attached obliquely to the chin of the flower;
  _petals_ obovate-oblong, like the dorsal sepal, acute, white, deeply
  tipped with chocolate purple; _lip_ distinctly stalked, with a sharply
  incurved claw, normally trowel-shaped when spread out, three-lobed,
  the lateral lobes prolonged, acute, and incurved so as to meet the
  base of the column, the middle lobe obtusely cordate, sulcate, with
  the edge recurved so as to bring it to a narrow triangular outline; it
  is white, with the whole surface, except the margin, covered with
  short purple-tipped papillæ, or ‘styliform processes,’ ranged in
  combined lines; on the _disk_ is a large semicircular lamellate ruff
  or frill, extending to the base, and consisting of numerous (about 20)
  erect folds or lamellæ, which are white below and of a deep rich
  purple along the edge of the folds, forming a series of stripes
  extending inwards to the base of the lip. _Column_ stoutish, angulate
  on both sides at the base, semiterete, dark purple, three-fourths of
  an inch long, projected over the basal ruff.

  Pecatorea Klabochorum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S. xi., 684; xii., 167; _Paxton’s Flower Garden_, re-issue, t. 21.

  Zygopetalum Klabochorum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’
  Chronicle_, N.S. xi., 684.


Until quite recently but few species of _Pescatorea_ were known in
cultivation. Latterly, however, several new ones have been introduced
into this country, and Orchid cultivators have now more numerous
opportunities of admiring the beautiful plants which are referred to
this genus.

_Pescatorea Klabochorum_ was introduced from Ecuador, by Franz Klaboch,
a nephew of Herr Roezl, one of the most successful plant collectors of
our time, and is named in commemoration of him and his surviving
brother, also a traveller and collector, The first plants, brought home
some four or five years since, were purchased by Messrs. James Veitch
and Sons, of Chelsea, and were distributed by them; but since then it
has been several times re-introduced, and is now to be found in numerous
collections. Several varieties have been already noticed. It appears to
have been first flowered in 1878 in England, by John Day, Esq., and in
Scotland by J. Gair, Esq., and again in 1879 in the noble collection of
Sir Trevor Lawrence Bart., M.P. The drawing reproduced in our plate was
prepared from a plant which flowered last August in our own collection,
and represents a very fair variety. A fine variety, which bloomed with
W. Cobb, Esq., of Silverdale Lodge, Sydenham, is figured in the revised
edition of _Paxton’s Flower Garden_.

The treatment which we find to suit this plant the best is to place it
in the Cattleya-house at the cool end. It should be potted in a compost
of peat and sphagnum moss, with a few lumps of charcoal added; and a
liberal supply of water should be given during the growing season, this
being gradually decreased as the winter approaches. The plants should be
well elevated above the rim of the pot, so as to allow any superfluous
water to drain away from the crown.

We do not find that noxious insects attack the species of _Pescatorea_
in any great degree. The scale will sometimes take up its abode on the
young growths, but when found this can easily be removed by the use of a
brush or sponge and water.

We saw a fine lot of Pescatoreas and Bolleas in splendid condition at
Falkirk in September last, in the collection of J. Gair, Esq. These
plants are not so easy of cultivation as many Orchids, their treatment
not being generally so well understood; but this was not the case in
this instance, for they were perfect plants, well cultivated, and
blooming freely. We noticed more especially a fine species named in
honour of Mr. Gair, which bears the richest coloured flowers we have
ever seen; of this we hope to give our readers an illustration when it
flowers next year. These plants were grown at the end of a house where a
mixed collection of Orchids, such as Cattleyas, Dendrobiums, Aërides,
and Saccolabiums, were doing well. Being a large house, the plants could
be treated according to their several requirements, whereas in a small
house the varied collection would not be found to do so well.


Vanda cœrulea.—This _Vanda_, whose flowers are of such a distinct and
beautiful colour, is no doubt one of the finest Orchids in cultivation.
We have had the pleasure of seeing the plant we are about to mention for
two successive years blooming in great perfection in the collection of
the Marquis of Lothian, at Newbattle, Dalkeith. The plant, which stands
one foot in height, and is well furnished with good foliage, produced
two spikes of its charming flowers, fourteen on each spike. The sepals
and petals are of a delicate lavender blue colour, barred and veined
with a deeper tint of the same; the lip is small, and of a dark violet
colour. It was a most showy object, and the amount of bloom upon it was
extraordinary, considering the small size of the plant. We have seen
larger specimens, but never one that has pleased us so well. Great
credit is due to Mr. Priest for producing such a plant, which is
increasing in size, and in the number of its flowers every year. There
Is a good collection of Orchids being formed at this place, where the
houses are suitable for their cultivation, and the plants are well
looked after and cared for.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 18.
    BURLINGTONIA CANDIDA.]




                         BURLINGTONIA CANDIDA.
                              [Plate 18.]
                          Native of Demerara.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ elliptic-oblong, compressed, monophyllous.
  _Leaves_ evergreen, broadish oblong, acute, somewhat channelled.
  _Racemes_ pendulous, issuing from the base of the pseudobulbs, three
  to five-flowered. _Flowers_ two and a half inches long, white,
  semitransparent, with a delightful violet-like fragrance; _sepals_
  projected forwards in the plane of the lip, the _dorsal_ one
  obovate-oblong, emarginate, the _anterior_ one bifid, linear-oblong,
  about half the length of the lip, curved sharply forwards, and
  channelled so as to closely invest the spur of the lip; _petals_
  parallel with the sepals and lip, obovate, oblique, the base
  encircling the column, spreading at the apex; _lip_ parallel with the
  column, with a channelled claw, dilated and bilobed in front, cuneate
  below, decorated in the centre with a yellow bar, the disk furnished
  with four or five yellowish lamellæ on each side, of which the
  anterior ones are longer, the spur short, enclosed in the anterior
  sepal. _Column_ smooth, slender, clavate, with two fleshy teeth at the
  apex.

  Burlingtonia candida, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, t. 1927; _Id._
  _Paxton’s Flower Garden_, i. 158; _Rand’s Orchids_, 179; _Floral
  Magazine_, t. 548.

  Rodriquezia candida, _Bateman in litteris_; _Reichenbach fil._, in
  _Walpers’ Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, vi., 695.


The genus _Burlingtonia_ was dedicated to the amiable and accomplished
Countess of Burlington, and contains a few small-growing but very
beautiful species, which come mostly from Brazil. The plant now under
notice, which was the earliest introduction, and the type of the genus,
was imported from Demerara, in British Guiana, so long since as 1834, by
James Bateman, Esq., now a veteran in the study and cultivation of
Orchids. It is consequently well-known to the growers and collectors of
this class of plants.

As a subject for growing in a basket suspended from the roof, this
species has few, if any, equals. When grown in this way, the pendent
spikes of white flowers hanging over the sides of the basket produce a
charming and distinct appearance.

The plant is compact-growing, and, like all the species of
_Burlingtonia_, is evergreen. The pendent flower-spikes are produced
from the sides of the pseudobulbs, and each bear from four to six
flowers, which are white, marked with yellow in the throat, and have a
slight but pleasant odour of violets.

_Burlingtonia candida_ should be grown in the Cattleya-house, in a
basket or pan, suspended from the roof. Sphagnum moss, with a good
drainage composed of crocks, is the best material for its roots, and the
bulbs should be well elevated above the rim of the pan or basket. This
plant delights in a plentiful supply of water at the roots—in fact, it
should never be allowed to get dry, as it requires but little rest. It
is propagated by division of the pseudobulbs.

Few insects attack this plant. The scale is the most frequent intruder,
and this is easily removed by the use of a sponge and clean water.


Ferguslie House, Paisley.—We have been in the habit of visiting the
gardens of T. Coates, Esq., for many years past, and have always been
surprised to see the Orchids grown by Mr. Thompson, the gardener who has
charge of them. There is no house specially devoted to the cultivation
of this class of plants, but they are grown in different houses
intermixed with stove-flowering plants, foliage plants, and ferns, and
in no instance have we seen East Indian Orchids grown to greater
perfection. We have from time to time witnessed the progress of the
specimens we are about to enumerate—in fact, we have seen them grown on
from quite small plants purchased some ten or twelve years ago, and the
size to which they have attained during this time, viz., up to the first
week in September, 1881, will no doubt astonish some of our readers, and
convince them it is not true that Orchids cannot be cultivated unless
they have houses set apart for their especial benefit. In order to show
the error of this conclusion, we will name a few of the Specimens that
we saw growing on one side of a span-roofed house, with stove plants on
the centre stage. _Aërides suavissimum_, grown from a small plant, is
now a fine specimen three feet high, having four stems, and in perfect
health, the foliage reaching down to the pot; it bore twenty spikes of
its long racemes of flowers, many of them having thirty-seven flowers on
a spike, and was one of the most beautiful objects that have come under
our notice. There is also another plant produced from the same specimen,
bearing twelve spikes of its lovely blossoms, which were in full beauty.
_A. Warnerii_ is a well-grown specimen, having several stems two to
three feet in height, and this blooms freely every year. _A. virens_, is
also a fine plant, with three stems three feet in height. _A. affine_ is
a wonderful specimen of good cultivation; it is generally of slow
growth, but in this case it has not proved so. _A. crispum_ again, is
well cultivated, having two stems nearly three feet high, and perfect,
and there is also a second plant of the same, three feet in height. _A.
Fieldingii_ is a fine specimen. _Vanda tricolor_, a well-furnished
plant, and _V. suavis_ four feet high, with three stems, are both
beautifully grown. A plant of the curious long-tailed _Angræcum
sesquipedale_, from eighteen inches to two feet in height, has four
stems, and is undoubtedly the best grown specimen we have seen.
_Phalænopsis Schilleriana_, a good specimen, with seven of its
beautifully-marked leaves, is growing suspended over the centre table.
There are other choice Orchids, such as _Cypripediums_, _Cœlogynes_, &c.
We also noticed, grown in two other houses, intermixed with various
plants, beautiful specimens of _Lælia Turnerii_, _L. elegans_, _L.
anceps_, _Cattleya Trianæ_, and others. There are also well-grown
examples of _Calanthe Masuca_, of _Dendrobium_, and other good Orchids;
but space will not admit of these being here enumerated.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 19.
    ANGULOA RUCKERII SANGUINEA.]




                      ANGULOA RUCKERII SANGUINEA.
                              [Plate 19.]
                          Native of Colombia.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ large, ovate-oblong, four to six inches high,
  furrowed when mature. _Leaves_ several, growing from the apex of the
  younger pseudobulbs, broadly lanceolate, acute, two to two and a half
  feet long and four to six inches broad, strongly ribbed and plaited.
  _Flower-scapes_ radical, one-flowered, shorter than the leaves,
  clothed below with imbricated sheathing bracts. _Flowers_ large,
  fleshy, nearly erect; _sepals_ roundish with an apiculus, strongly
  convex, conniving into a semi-globular shape, which with their nearly
  erect position gives them a somewhat tulip-like appearance, creamy
  yellow outside, and of a deep sanguineous red on the inner surface;
  _petals_ similar in form and colour to the sepals; _lip_ clawed,
  subconvolute, three-lobed, the lateral lobes broadish and obtuse, the
  middle portion hairy, funnel-shaped and two-lipped, the front lobe
  tridentate, and with the middle part crimson blotched and barred with
  white. _Column_ entire, creamy white, spotted with crimson.

  Anguloa Ruckerii sanguinea, _Lindley_ in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, 1852,
  271; _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5384; _Williams’ Orchid
  Growers’ Manual_, ed. iv., 90; ed. v., 92.


The subject of our present illustration is an exceedingly rare plant,
and is met with in only a few collections. In its habit of growth and
general appearance it resembles the type _Anguloa Ruckerii_, but it is
very distinct in colour, and is altogether a more desirable plant, the
flowers being of a much richer colour—a deep rich blood-red spotted with
a darker tint of the same—whereas in the original _A. Ruckerii_ they are
of a fine orange colour spotted with dark brown.

The growth of this plant is very majestic, producing as it does bulbs
four to six inches high, and leaves from eighteen to thirty inches long,
by four to six inches broad. The flowers, which proceed from the base of
the pseudobulb, are erect, tulip-shaped, and of great substance and
size, lasting as long as four weeks in perfection. _A. Ruckerii
sanguinea_ is a very suitable plant for exhibition purposes on account
of the distinct appearance produced by its massive flowers when
intermixed with other Orchids.

The temperature best suited for this plant is that of the cool
Orchid-house. We have found it succeed well in pots in a compost of good
fibrous peat, with plenty of drainage. It requires a good season of
rest, during which period the plant should be kept rather dry until it
begins to show renewed signs of growth, when the supply of water may be
increased. It is propagated by division of the pseudobulbs just before
they start into growth. We are indebted for the opportunity of figuring
this plant to Dr. Boddaert, of Ghent, Belgium, in whose collection it
flowered last July.

A fine figure of the original _Anguloa Ruckerii_ will be found in
_Warner’s Select Orchidaceous Plants_, 2nd series, t. 10; and it is also
figured in the _Botanical Register_, 1846, t. 41; and in _Moore’s
Illustrations of Orchidaceous Plants_, art. Auguloa, plate 3.


Cattleya Dowiana.—We have received a very beautiful flower of this grand
Cattleya, by post, from R. Dodgson, Esq., of Blackburn, in whose fine
collection the plant has been grown. Mr. Osman, the gardener, says, “we
had three imported plants last year, and two of them are now in bloom.”
We were pleased to hear this, as _Cattleya Dowiana_ is considered a
difficult plant to flower, though we have seen many plants blooming this
season. There is no doubt that its cultivation is becoming better
understood. The variety above referred to has a large lip of a most
intense dark purple, striped and reticulated with golden yellow, in a
very prominent manner. The sepals and petals are large, of good
substance, of a bright nankeen colour, and produce a very pleasing and
altogether distinct appearance. This is, undoubtedly, one of the most
distinct and beautiful of all Cattleyas. There is a grand figure of this
species in the 2nd series of _Warner’s Select Orchidaceous Plants_, t.
27.—B. S. W.


Cypripedium Spicerianum.—We were pleased to receive last month a
splendid bloom of this fine variety from J. S. Bockett, Esq., of
Stamford Hill. There is no doubt that it is one of the most distinct
species of the whole genus. The dorsal sepal is erect, curiously curved,
pure white, of a wax-like texture, having a purple streak extending from
the base to the apex; the linear-oblong petals are much crisped on the
edge, and, like the other parts of the flower, are of a bronzy-green
colour, the lip being darker, of a reddish-brown and glossy. It has been
named in honour of H. Spicer, Esq., and was introduced from India some
few years ago. We also received at the same time a fine form of
_Odontoglossum Chestertoni_, and a most distinctly spotted variety of
_O. Alexandræ_, the sepals and petals of which are white, spotted with
reddish-crimson, and the lip white, with a large reddish-brown blotch on
the lower portion.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 20.
    DENDROBIUM AINSWORTHII ROSEUM.[]




                     DENDROBIUM AINSWORTHII ROSEUM.
                              [Plate 20.]
                            A Garden Hybrid.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ (pseudobulbs) clustered, elongate, spreading,
  terete, stoutish above, tapering to the base, jointed, the surface
  furrowed between the joints. _Leaves_ distichous, linear-oblong,
  acute, three-fourths of an inch broad, sheathing the stems at the
  base, the sheaths remaining as a membranous investment. _Peduncles_
  proceeding from the joints of the stem, slender, two to
  three-flowered, the pedicels with small ovate bracts at their base.
  _Flowers_ showy, white, with rich amaranth-crimson blotch, measuring
  about three inches across; _sepals_ lanceolate or ovate-lanceolate,
  spreading, white, tinged with rose colour, as are the larger and
  broader oblong-ovate _petals_; _lip_ (labellum) broadly obovate,
  cucullate, the basal portion rolled in over the column, the anterior
  portion spread out into a broad concave heart-shaped front lobe, which
  is undulated at the margin, and nearly covered by a large rich
  amaranth-crimson blotch, feathered at the edge, and traversed by
  deeper crimson veins, the extreme margin being paler. _Column_ short,
  enclosed by the basal portion of the lip.

  Dendrobium Ainsworthii, _Moore_ in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_ (1874), N.S.
  i. 443, figs. 93, 94; _Id._ N.S. viii., 166, figs. 30, 31, 32;
  _Anderson_ in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S. vii., 751; _Floral
  Magazine_, 2 s. t. 196; _Rand’s Orchids_, 242; _Williams’ Orchid
  Growers’ Manual_, ed. v., 163.

  _Var._ ROSEUM; sepals and petals tinted with magenta rose; lip almost
  wholly covered by the large mulberry-crimson feathered blotch.

  Dendrobium Ainsworthii _var._ ROSEUM, _Moore_ in _Gardeners’
  Chronicle_ (1877), N.S. vii., 655; _Id._ N.S. viii., 166; _Anderson_
  in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S. vii., 750.


The beautiful _Dendrobium Ainsworthii_ is the result of a cross between
_D. nobile_ and _D. heterocarpum_, and was raised by Mr. Mitchell,
gardener to R. F. Ainsworth, Esq., M.D., Of Higher Broughton,
Manchester, after whom it is named. In habit of growth and in general
appearance the plant partakes mostly of the character of _D. nobile_,
while the flowers more closely resemble those of _D. heterocarpum_ in
form, and have in a slight degree the delicious fragrance of those
produced by that species. In _D. Ainsworthii_ the flowers have white
sepals and petals, while the lip is marked by a dense blotch of a rich
amaranth or mulberry-crimson. In the _D. Ainsworthii roseum_ now
figured, the sepals and petals are of a bright rosy-magenta, and the lip
is more fully covered with a richer coloured deep crimson blotch. This
variety is extremely rare, and forms a charming contrast to the white
blossoms of its sister hybrid. The flowers will be found very useful for
cutting, as they last for a considerable time in water.

_Dendrobium Ainsworthii roseum_ requires treatment similar to that given
to _D. nobile_. We have found it to do well in a compost of peat and
sphagnum moss, planted in pans suspended from the roof of the East India
house, in a position where it can get plenty of light and air. During
the growing season this plant enjoys a liberal supply of water, which
after the bulbs have completed their development may be gradually
withheld, and the plant cooled down by placing it in the Cattleya-house,
where it should remain until the time of flowering, which extends from
February to June. Mr. Stevens, of Trentham, grows it very successfully,
suspended in a well-appointed plant stove, where it has abundance of
light.

We remember seeing a splendid plant of _Dendrobium Ainsworthii roseum_
exhibited by Mr. Mitchell, at the Whitsuntide Manchester Show, in May,
1877, in the form of a well furnished specimen two and a half feet in
height and two feet in breadth, the stems being literally smothered with
some hundreds of its beautiful crimson-lipped rosy-tinted flowers.

Referring to this same Manchester Show of 1877, Mr. Anderson, of Meadow
Bank, a well-known Orchid grower, writes of this plant, as follows
(_Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S. vii., 750):—“Possibly the gem of the
Exhibition was _Dendrobium Ainsworthii roseum_. This is a most
remarkable seedling partaking of the character of both its parents (_D.
nobile_ and _D. heterocarpum_), and in some respects superior to either.
In point of floriferousness none of its parents can lay claim to such a
quantity of nodes on the deciduous stems, each bearing, or rather
emitting, its quota of flowers. I counted on one stem sixteen short
racemes, each two and three-flowered. The flower itself has the sepals
and petals of _moniliforme_ rather than of _nobile_, white shaded with
an almost imperceptible tint of rose, and tipped distinctly with that
soft pleasing colour. The labellum is flat, like an expanded
_heterocarpum_, reflexing a little towards the centre, with a blotch
covering three-quarters of its surface with deep veined purplish or
rather mulberry-crimson, edged very distinctly with white, and the
extremity slightly tipped with crimson. This I look upon as one of the
greatest gains in hybridization, whether we regard the colour of the
flower, or the general floriferousness of the plant, or its free
although not awkward habit of growth. As an Orchid enthusiast of the
last five and twenty years, I would pronounce it one of the greatest
gains that may be counted up in the whole known Orchid family.”

Altogether this is a most desirable plant, and being easy of
cultivation, and of remarkably free-flowering habit, it should find a
place in every collection.

    [Illustration:  PL. 21.
    AERIDES LOBBII.]




                            AËRIDES LOBBII.
                              [Plate 21.]
                          Native of Moulmein.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ erect, densely foliose, producing the stout aërial
  roots from between the leaf bases. _Leaves_ evergreen, close set,
  distichous, leathery in texture, loriform, channelled, obliquely
  bilobed at the apex, of a deep green colour, obsoletely spotted with
  purple, paler on the under surface. _Racemes_ axillary, many-flowered,
  long, branched, cylindrical, pendulous. _Flowers_ very numerous,
  medium-sized, fragrant, the sepals and petals white, flushed with rosy
  purple and spotted with deeper rose-purple, the broader lip with a bar
  of rosy purple, darkest in the centre, from base to apex, and bordered
  with white; _sepals_ and _petals_ elliptic-oblong, nearly equal,
  incurved; _lip_ much larger, clawed, the claw hollowed out and
  coadunate with the base of the column, the limb ovate or somewhat
  lozenge-shaped, wavy at the margin; _spur_ arcuate, somewhat
  compressed laterally. _Column_ short, in form resembling the neck and
  beak of a bird, with the front edge produced and folded over the
  stigmatic cavity.

  Aërides Lobbii, _Hort. Veitch_; _Lemaire_, _Illustration Horticole_,
  xv., t. 559; _Williams_, _Orchid Growers’ Manual_, ed. 5, 67; _Rand_,
  _Orchids_, 149; _Britten & Gower_, _Orchids for Amateurs_, 177.


This very beautiful brightly-coloured plant was discovered in Moulmein
by Mr. Thomas Lobb, who sent it to the Messrs. Veitch & Sons, of
Chelsea, about the year 1856. It is of remarkably free-flowering and
decorative character, and is no doubt one of the most beautiful species
of this fine genus of Orchids, being valuable alike on account of its
compact-growing habit, and the strikingly ornamental nature of its
inflorescence. There appear to be several varieties of this plant
distributed through our Orchid collections, all of them handsome and
deserving of cultivation, but that which we now illustrate, from a
finely grown, elegantly branching spike, kindly sent to us by C. J.
Hill, Esq., of Nottingham, and referred to in the note published under
Plate 15, is the finest form, and the most freely bloomed specimen we
have met with. We were, in truth, charmed with the size and colour of
the flowers of this plant, when recently inspecting Mr. Hill’s
collection, the long spikes of blossom which were produced by so small a
plant being quite extraordinary.

There is no genus of Orchids that surpasses _Aërides_ in having handsome
evergreen foliage, so that, even when not in blossom, they are
exceedingly pretty objects; while to this it must be added, that their
flower-spikes are beautiful, and their flowers deliciously fragrant;
some, of course, are more handsome than others, but all are worth
growing: in fact, we have never seen an indifferent _Aërides_. They have
every good quality that a plant of this character can possess, and they
are of easy cultivation, so that anyone who has a stove may manage them
successfully. They do not require so much heat as some persons imagine;
the temperature need not be above 65° in the winter; more is, indeed,
required in summer, but even then sun-heat should be fully utilised, and
very little fire-heat should be used.

_Aërides Lobbii_ blooms in June and July, and lasts for three or four
weeks in beauty. The plant, from which our illustration was taken, was
but a foot in height, and the magnificent flowering racemes we saw upon
it were fully two feet six inches in length, with two branches each a
foot in length. The sepals and petals are white, spotted with bright
rose colour; the lip is also of a bright rose colour, slightly veined
and margined with white. The flowers are deliciously fragrant.

The plant being very compact in growth, occupies but little space, so
that anyone having a small vacant place in the Orchid-house or plant
stove, might readily grow it. It will thrive either in a basket
suspended from the roof of the house, or in a pot planted in sphagnum
moss, with good drainage, and a moderate supply of water during the
summer season, while in winter only just sufficient should be given to
keep the moss damp. The plants do not, however, like to be dried up, as
this often causes them to loose their bottom leaves, which is a great
disfigurement. They require plenty of light, but do not like to be
exposed to the burning sunshine. Canvas should therefore be used as a
shading during all the bright sunny portion of the day, but when the sun
has, in some degree, lost its burning heat the blinds may be raised.
Never allow water to get into the hearts of the plants in winter. In
summer a fine rose should be employed to syringe them, which operation
should be done about three o’clock in the afternoon, when the house is
closed.

They should be always kept free from insects. Scale, thrips, and many
other insects are to be reckoned amongst their enemies, and cockroaches,
if allowed to attack them, will often eat away their young roots and
flower-spikes.

    [Illustration:  PL. 22.
    CYPRIPEDIUM LAWRENCIANUM.]




                       CYPRIPEDIUM LAWRENCEANUM.
                              [Plate 22.]
                           Native of Borneo.


  Epiphytal. _Stem_ almost none, the leaves springing from the crown of
  stout roots. _Leaves_ radical, distichous, coriaceous, broadly oblong,
  acute, channelled, a foot long, the upper surface marbled with a dark
  green mosaic pattern on a whitish-green ground colour. _Scapes_
  solitary in the leaf-axils, stout, pubescent, with an oblong-ovate
  acute sheathing bract near the top, from which the flower or flowers
  emerge. _Flowers_ very large, in the way of those of _C. barbatum
  majus_; _dorsal sepal_ sub-rotund or very broadly-ovate, acute, white,
  with numerous (about thirteen) shining curved purplish veins which run
  out nearly or quite to the edge, and usually alternate with others
  which are short and less boldly marked; _lateral sepals_ connate,
  small, oblong, greenish white, with five dark purplish veins; _petals_
  fully half an inch wide, divaricate, linear-oblong ciliate, green in
  the upper half, with purple margin, stained with dull purple towards
  the tip, and with several dark fleshy warts along each margin, the
  lower half flushed with pale wine red; _lip_ very large, pouch-shaped,
  the lateral horns much developed, purplish brown above, yellowish
  green below, with numerous warts on the inside. _Staminode_ of a
  wax-like yellowish white, the posterior exterior border split in the
  centre, and having five anterior teeth, the middle one much larger
  than the rest.

  Cypripedium Lawrenceanum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’
  Chronicle_, N.S., x., 748; _Veitch and Sons_, _Catalogue of New
  Plants_, 1879, p. 9, 23, with figure; _Florist and Pomologist_, 1880,
  112, with figure.


The introduction of this splendid species of Lady’s Slipper is one of
the results of Mr. F. W. Burbidge’s visit to Borneo, in the service of
Messrs. Veitch & Sons, of Chelsea. It is a very robust grower, and
flowered for the first time in the autumn of 1878, when it was named by
Professor Reichenbach, in the place above quoted, in honour of Sir
Trevor Lawrence, Bart., M.P., an ardent orchidophilist, and the
possessor of a collection of Orchids of unequalled richness and beauty.

The Cypripediums now form a large family group, and rank amongst the
most useful of Orchids that can be cultivated, since the lasting quality
of their flowers, especially for exhibition and decorative purposes, is
something extraordinary. Many of them in addition possess beautifully
variegated foliage, as in the species we now figure, which has the
leaves most distinctly marked with light and dark green. Our drawing was
taken from a very fine plant in the select collection of H. M. Pollett,
Esq., Fernside, Bickley, a gentleman who is a great lover of Orchids,
and who has the wisdom to secure healthy young plants at the outset, in
order that he may see them grow on into good specimens, such as the one
now before us has done. It gives one great pleasure to see plants so
well cultivated.

_Cypripedium Lawrenceanum_ has, as we have already said, beautifully
marked foliage, so that even when not in blossom, it is found to be an
object of attraction. The upper or dorsal sepals of the flowers were in
this case three inches across, white, striped with plum-purple, which
runs in curved lines from the base nearly to the margin. The petals are
green along the upper edge, suffused with purple towards the end, and
having black wart-like spots, and a fringe of purple hairs along the
margin. The pouch or lip is large, of a reddish brown colour in front,
the under and hinder part yellowish green.

These plants are best grown in pots with peat, and a little charcoal, or
sometimes a little good fibrous loam mixed with the peat. It is a
free-rooting species, and likes to be well elevated above the pot rim,
so that its roots can penetrate readily and work freely in the rough
material. The pot should be half filled with drainage, so that a good
supply of moisture may be given to the roots during the growing season.
The Cattleya or the East India-house seems to suit the plants well, as
in these structures they grow and flower freely.

The flowers are very useful for cutting, as they will keep a long time
in vases if the water is kept sweet and pure.


Baron Schröder’s Orchids.—On the occasion of a recent visit to The Dell,
Staines, the seat of Baron Schröder, we had the good fortune to inspect
the fine collection of Orchids which has been got together. The houses
are well built, after the plans of Mr. Ballantyne, the gardener, and are
placed in good positions; not only have the ventilation and heating
power been well considered, but cleanliness also; indeed the arrangement
of the houses leaves nothing to be desired. The Orchids were, at the
time, looking remarkably well. Entering the Phalænopsis house we noticed
a fine plant in flower of the rare and beautiful _Phalænopsis intermedia
Portei_, a treat which seldom falls to one’s lot, for it is a matter of
regret that this splendid Phalænopsis is so rare in collections: it must
be very scarce in its native habitat or collectors would surely find it
oftener. _Cypripedium Spicerianum_ was also flowering here. Several
different species of _Nepenthes_ were in fine character, growing above a
tank, with their pitchers gracefully drooping over the water, in which
position they seemed to be quite at home. In this house were also some
grand plants of different species of _Saccolabium_, _Cypripedium_, &c.,
all doing well. Leaving the Phalænopsis house the Cattleya house, which
runs at right angles to it, is next entered. Here we noticed a gigantic
specimen of _Cattleya exoniensis_, carrying several spikes of flower;
_Lælia autumnalis atrorubens_, with grand spikes, and flowers of unusual
size and fine colour; and _Dendrobium Wardianum_ in full beauty,
suspended from the roof. The Cattleyas, &c., in this house were in grand
condition, and bid fair to produce some fine spikes next season. In the
Odontoglossum house _Zygopetalum Gautieri_ was flowering well, also
_Miltonia candida_ and _Sophronitis grandiflora_. The East Indian
Orchids were in an especially healthy condition, the collection
containing some grand specimens of _Vanda_, _Aërides_, and
_Saccolabium_.

This collection, which has been lately formed, bids fair to become one
of the finest in the country, Baron Schröder being an enthusiastic lover
of this handsome class of plants, and being also careful to obtain only
the best varieties.—H. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 23.
    LÆLIA XANTHINA.]




                            LÆLIA XANTHINA.
                              [Plate 23.]
                           Native of Brazil.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ clavate fusiform, the narrowed base closely
  invested by imbricating bracts, monophyllous. _Leaves_ oblong-lorate,
  bluntish, coriaceous, longer than the pseudobulbs, and with them
  reaching to about a foot in height. _Scape_ four to six flowered,
  issuing from a terminal linear-oblong acute compressed bract or
  spathe, three-fourths of an inch wide and about four inches long, and
  of a pale green colour. _Flowers_ leathery in texture, three to four
  inches across, very distinct in aspect; _sepals_ and _petals_
  oblong-ligulate obtuse, undulated, the sides rolled back so that they
  appear convex, the petals most so, both of a deep golden yellow, more
  or less stained or flushed with olive-green; _lip_ cucullate,
  subquadrate, obtusely three-lobed at the apex, yolk of egg colour,
  paler at the edge, the front border white, and marked on the disc by a
  few crimson-purple veins, which are not raised like crests above the
  surface, as in the allied _L. flava_. _Column_ semiterete, clavate,
  lobulate at the apex, projected forwards, about as long as the entire
  edges of the lip and convergent therewith.

  Lælia xanthina, _Lindley_, in _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5144;
  _Bateman_, _Second Century of Orchidaceous Plants_, t. 180; _Rand_,
  _Orchids_, 303.

  Bletia xanthina, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices
  Systematicæ_, vi. 425; _Id._ _Xenia Orchidaceæ_, ii. 54.


This interesting and distinct-looking _Lælia_ was introduced from Brazil
many years ago by Messrs. Backhouse & Son, of York, but from the limited
quantity then obtained it has always remained a scarce plant. It appears
to have been imported about 1858, as it was figured in 1859 in the
_Botanical Magazine_, as above quoted. It is, indeed, with great
pleasure that we are enabled to introduce to our readers a figure of so
rare and so distinct a species, for it is seldom seen in collections,
having always been a rare plant. The colour of the flowers is of a
nankeen-yellow, consequently they strongly contrast with those of the
generality of Orchids of this affinity, the usual colours of which are
purple, or rose colour in various tints, or white.

Our plate was prepared from a drawing which was made in September last
from a plant which flowered in our own collection. It will be seen from
the representation, which is a very faithful one, that _Lælia xanthina_
is really a very pretty species, and one that our collectors ought to be
looking after, so that Orchid growers may have it supplied to them at a
more reasonable price than at present.

The plant grows about a foot in height, and is somewhat like _Lælia
purpurata_ in its habit of growth, only it is very much smaller and more
compact and free-blooming. The flowers continue about three weeks in
perfection. It requires the same kind of treatment as other species of
_Lælia_ and _Cattleya_, and thrives best when cultivated in a pot or
basket, with fibrous peat, and good drainage. Like the rest of its class
it requires to be kept as fully exposed to the light as possible, in
order that the pseudobulbs may be thoroughly ripened; and the growth
being thus more completely matured, it will be found to become more
vigorous in character, and enabled to throw up its flower-spikes more
freely. There is a grand specimen of this species, over two feet in
diameter, in the collection of H. Shaw, Esq., Corbar, Buxton.


Lælia autumnalis atrorubens.—It is highly gratifying to find that this
splendid variety of _Lælia autumnalis_, is becoming more plentiful, and
that it keeps up its original character. Many growers were of opinion
when it was first introduced, that the large size of its flowers and the
rich colour of the sepals and petals were due mainly to superior
cultivation and a pure atmosphere, but such is not the case. We have
flowered some plants of it this season in our own establishment at
Holloway, which have been as good, both in regard to the size and colour
of the flowers, as those of any of the plants grown in a purer
atmosphere, away from the smoke of this great City. We have received
from the Right Honorable J. Chamberlain, Esq., M.P., of Birmingham, a
splendidly developed spike of a grand form of this beautiful variety,
which had been grown under the care of his gardener, Mr. Cooper.—B. S.
W.

Odontoglossum vexillarium (Autumn-flowering variety)—A short time back
Mr. W. Bull exhibited at South Kensington a recently imported form of
_Odontoglossum vexillarium_, which had all the appearance of being a
distinct variety, flowering during the autumn months of the year. It is,
however, we think, somewhat premature to regard this autumn-flowering
character as thoroughly established, though there is no doubt the
variety is a distinct one, and remarkably fine in colour. This being the
first time of its flowering, the particular growth shown may have been
influenced by the time at which the plants were started. However, in due
time, and with good cultivation we shall see whether this peculiarity of
flowering towards the end of the year is really a constant character, or
whether it may have resulted from the circumstances above referred
to.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 23.
    MASDEVALLIA HARRYANA CŒRULESCENS.]




                   MASDEVALLIA HARRYANA CŒRULESCENS.
                              [Plate 24.]
                         Native of New Grenada.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ slender, tufted. _Leaves_ evergreen, coriaceous,
  ten to twelve inches long, with a nerveless elongate oblong-spathulate
  blade, obtuse or somewhat acute at the apex, channelled at the base,
  keeled behind, of a very dark green colour, narrowed downwards into
  the stout petiole, which is three to four inches long, deeply grooved
  in front, and invested at the base by long membranous brownish
  sheaths. _Scape_ a foot long or more, brown, covered below with three
  or four bluntish sheaths, the upper of which is distant from the
  flower and closely appressed. _Flowers_ large, peculiar in form,
  richly coloured, the colour varying in different forms, typically of a
  brilliant magenta-crimson; _dorsal sepal_ elongate linear from a
  triangular base, sub-erect or reflexed; _lateral sepals_ broadly
  semiovate, apiculate, connate to below the middle, deflexed, the tips
  approximate, all united below into a decurved _tube_, which is yellow
  (in the allied _M. Lindeni_ the tube is white); petals small, hidden
  within the tube, linear-oblong emarginate, the base auriculate on one
  side; _lip_ also small, enclosed, clawed, tongue-shaped, cordate at
  the base. _Column_ rather longer than the lip, entire, not winged.

  Masdevallia Harryana, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  1871, 1421; _Florist & Pomologist_, 1873, 169, with coloured figure;
  _Belgique Horticole_, 1873, t. 21; _Flore des Serres_, t. 2250.

  Masdevallia Lindeni, _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, _t._ 5990—_fide_
  Reichenbach.

  Masdevallia Lindeni, _var._ Harryana, _André_, _Illustration
  Horticole_, 3 ser., t. 142.

  _Var._ CŒRULESCENS: flowers of a rich magenta-crimson, with a
  bluish-purple flush or bloom; otherwise as in the type.

  Masdevallia Harryana cœrulescens, _Hort._ _plurim._; _Bull_,
  _Catalogue of New Plants_, 1877, p. 83.


We ought to be cordially grateful to our plant collectors for
introducing to European gardens so brilliant, varied, and charming a set
of epiphytal plants, as the several showy ornamental, and pleasingly
grotesque species of the genus _Masdevallia_. There are indeed but few
Orchids that possess such bright colours as are found therein. A few
years since we had but two species that were really worth growing,
namely, _M. coccinea_, of an orange-scarlet colour, and _M. tovarensis_,
pure white. Then came _M. Lindeni_, a charming plant with flowers of a
rich magenta-purple colour. _M. Veitchiana_, of which there are some
very fine forms, made a fine contrast with its glowing orange-scarlet
and bright yellow, the scarlet flushed with purple. The most beautiful,
however, of all the Masdevallias are the varieties of _M. Harryana_, the
colours of which—shades of magenta-crimson—are most intense and
brilliant, many of the forms being also distinct in shape.

_Masdevallia Harryana cœrulescens_, our present subject, was forwarded
to us by R. P. Percival, Esq., of Southport, who is forming what will in
time doubtless become one of the best collections of these plants in the
North of England. Whatever Mr. Percival takes in hand he carries out
thoroughly, and this has led him to build separate houses to suit the
different classes of Orchids. Now as Masdevallias prefer cool treatment
they are best kept in a house by themselves: they require but a small
one, as they take up very little room; indeed they will thrive well
enough in the Odontoglossum house, for if their few wants are attended
to, there are no freer growing plants in cultivation. They increase very
fast under good treatment, and soon repay all the care which is bestowed
upon them. They last a long time in beauty and make grand exhibition
plants, producing also, when in bloom, a charming effect in the houses
if intermixed with the various Odontoglots and other cool Orchids. There
are so many varieties that some of them will always be in flower, but
the best time to see them is from May to July. They are so accommodating
to the grower that many wonderful specimens have been produced and
exhibited during the last few years. When a plant is found to be too
large it may be divided, and the divided portions will go on increasing.

We have found good fibrous peat and sphagnum moss to suit well as
material for the potting of these plants. They thrive best in small
pots. The roots should not be disturbed too often; when, however, they
require fresh material to root in, it must be given them, as they are
free rooting plants and prefer to have sweet wholesome soil about them.
They must also have good drainage, for they need an abundant supply of
water, and by giving them efficient drainage the water passes off
quickly without doing any harm, which it would do if allowed to become
stagnant about them. The plants should be placed near the light but so
as to avoid the sun’s rays. A north house suits them best, as it shields
them in summer from the heat of the day, which they do not like, in
fact, they should be kept as cool as possible at all times, very little
fire-heat being required in winter, and none during the summer. They
like fresh air, but in winter cold draughts must be avoided. We find
that they will thrive in a heat of from 45° to 50°: even somewhat less
would suffice, but the temperature here named is the most suitable.
Anyone, therefore, who possesses a small low house could grow them at a
trifling expense.

They are easily propagated by dividing the tufts, leaving about three
old stems and a leading growth associated. The best time for the
division to be effected is just as they are beginning to grow. They
should be placed in small pots until they are established, when they
should be removed to larger ones.

Insects should be annihilated as soon as they put in an appearance. The
thrips is their greatest pest. Cool Orchids, as a rule, are also subject
to the attack of a small kind of snail, that increases very rapidly, if
not kept under by constant watching night and morning. A few lettuce
leaves placed in different parts of the house, or potatos or turnips cut
in half and scooped out in the centre, form good traps for them, and by
looking these over frequently many of them may be caught, as also by
moving the plants, as they are apt to harbour about the pots.

    [Illustration:  PL. 25.
    CYMBIDIUM PARISHII.]




                          CYMBIDIUM PARISHII.
                              [Plate 25.]
                          Native of Moulmein.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ fusiform, three to four inches long, annulately
  marked with the remains of the leaf-bases. _Leaves_ evergreen,
  distichous, ligulate-linear, keeled behind, bifid with acute lobes,
  from one to two feet long, of a rich green colour. _Racemes_ springing
  from the axils of the outer leaves, three to seven-flowered, the
  scapes furnished with lanceolate, falcate, acuminate, scariose
  sheaths. _Flowers_ large, sweet-scented, ivory-white, with an orange
  disk and crimson-purple spots on the lip; _sepals_ and _petals_
  oblong-ligulate, acute, of a creamy white colour, the lateral sepals
  largest; _lip_ white with an orange coloured central band,
  flabellately dilated from a narrowed base, three-cleft in front, the
  side lobes oblong directed forwards, white, with numerous
  violet-purple spots, the middle or front lobe cuneate-ovate,
  undulated, with an orange-coloured silky or velvety disk, spotted with
  purplish crimson; disk having near the base a callus which terminates
  abruptly in front, and is furnished on the outer side with velvety
  hairs. _Column_ white behind, yellow at the edges, and in front having
  brownish purple spots at the base; caudicle provided in front, on both
  sides, with an awl-shaped extrorse process.

  Cymbidium Parishii, _Reichenbach fil._, _MS. Herb. Kew_; _Id._
  _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S. I., 338, 566; x., 74; _Id._ _Transactions
  of the Linnean Society_, xxx., 144.


The genus _Cymbidium_ forms a small group of Orchids of which there are
but few species worthy of cultivation for ornamental purposes. That
which we now figure is one of the best of them, and is a very rare and
very beautiful plant, which has but seldom bloomed in this country. In
the summer of 1878 Mr. Swan, gardener to W. Leach, Esq., of Oakley
Fallowfield, Manchester, flowered it for the first time in Europe, and
about the same time another specimen blossomed with John Day, Esq., of
Tottenham, which was subsequently purchased by us for 100 guineas. This
latter plant has again flowered, and our sketch was taken from it.

Though a near relative of _Cymbidium eburneum_, this plant is considered
by Reichenbach to be a distinct species, the points of difference
being—the broader leaves with more prominent nerves on the upper
surface; the somewhat smaller flowers with shorter sepals and petals;
and the different form of the segments of the lip, together with some
peculiarities in its callus and pubescence. It is one of the treasures
of India, having been originally discovered so long since as 1859, in
Moulmein, by the Rev. C. Parish, who found _Dendrobium crassinode_ at
the same time. The plants of both these fine Orchids, then collected,
were lost in the Ganges, and the _Cymbidium_ was not seen again for many
years. It appears to have been actually introduced shortly prior to
1874, since at that date living plants are recorded as being rarities in
the collection of Mr. J. Day, of Tottenham, and Mr. R. Warner, of
Broomfield, though it had not then flowered in Europe. It is a most
chaste and lovely plant, its graceful green foliage, and creamy white
blossoms in which the lip is spotted with crimson, producing a beautiful
effect. The flowers have also a pleasant perfume, and last for three or
four weeks in perfection. The flowering season is July and August, and
several flowers are produced upon a spike, in which respect it has a
decided advantage on the score of beauty over _C. eburneum_, which
produces but one flower on a spike. The latter, however, is a charming
Orchid for winter and spring flowering, its ivory-white blossoms being
then especially acceptable. There is also another fine species, _C.
Mastersii_, which produces its white flowers during the dull months of
autumn, when Orchid as well as other white flowers, are scarce. These
are all worth growing for the purpose of cutting, as they keep for a
long time in water.

_Cymbidium Parishii_ is very much like _C. eburneum_ and _C. Mastersii_
in its manner of growth, and also in its general appearance; in fact, it
is somewhat difficult, when the plants are not in bloom, to distinguish
the one from the other. An inspection of our figure will, however, show
that the foliage of _C. Parishii_ is broader and that it is of a lighter
green colour.

It requires the same treatment as _C. eburneum_. We grow the plants in
pots, in the Cattleya house, on the side tables, near the glass. The
material we use for potting is rough fibrous peat and loam, with
thoroughly good drainage, the plants being also elevated above the rim
of the pot. Their roots are thick and fleshy, and they therefore require
a good supply of water during the growing season, but when at rest, the
soil must be kept only just moist. They must be shielded from bright
sunshine, by blinds or some other means, otherwise their foliage will
become spotted. In winter they do not like to have their leaves damped,
although in summer, on warm days, it will not injure them.

They are propagated by dividing the tufts just as they are starting to
make fresh growth, leaving some of the established portion at the back
of the new growth. They must be kept free from insects. The white scale,
which sometimes endeavours to make its way on the foliage, is that
chiefly to be guarded against.


Vanda tricolor.—In November last, we saw in the collection of J. Broome,
Esq., of Didsbury, a very finely grown plant of _V. tricolor_, with two
spikes of exceedingly richly coloured flowers—one of the best we have
ever seen. It is in the way of the Dalkeith variety, but the flowers are
large and of a remarkably bright colour. Mr. Broome sent us a spike to
figure but it was spoilt in the transit; we hope, however, to be able to
procure another when the plant again blooms, so that our subscribers may
see what a well-grown specimen it is. It stands two feet six inches in
height, and has beautifully healthy foliage down to the pot.

    [Illustration:  PL. 26.
    CATTLEYA VELUTINA.]




                           CATTLEYA VELUTINA.
                              [Plate 26.]
                           Native of Brazil.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ slender, terete, from twelve to eighteen inches
  high, supporting the evergreen foliage, and furnished at intervals
  with short ovate appressed bracts. _Leaves_ in pairs, oblong, acute,
  widest near the base, leathery, about eight inches long, and an inch
  and a half broad, of a dark green colour. _Scape_ two-flowered,
  issuing from a terminal compressed sheath or bract. _Flowers_ of
  medium size, stout in texture, tawny orange, the lip white marked with
  purplish spots arranged in radiating lines, very fragrant; _sepals_
  ligulate-oblong, acute, recurved, rich tawny orange, spotted with
  purple; _petals_ of the same colour, cuneate-oblong, acute, somewhat
  lobulate or wavy; _lip_ three-lobed, the side lobes very short
  semi-ovate, partially enclosing the column, the front lobe large,
  roundish-ovate, apiculate, wavy and toothletted, the disk between the
  side lobes yellow with purplish streaks, the radiating veins purplish,
  the front or middle lobe white with dark purple veins, everywhere
  clothed with velvety pubescence. _Column_ free at the back, marked
  with many purple spots, and having a purplish border to the
  anther-bed.

  Cattleya velutina, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  1870, 140, 1373; _Id._ 1872, 1259, figs. 288, 289; _Williams_, _Orchid
  Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed. 135.


This fine Orchid first flowered in 1870, under the care of Mr. A.
Williams, in the collection of Joseph Broome, Esq., of Didsbury,
Manchester, and subsequently in that of E. G. Wrigley, Esq., of Bury.
What is described as a still finer variety of the same plant appeared
shortly after in the collection of Consul Schiller, of Hamburgh. One of
the most remarkable and special peculiarities of the species is the
powerful fragrance of its flowers, which is so strongly developed as to
scent the whole house in which a blooming plant is placed.

It is a very rare as well as a very distinct species. We have,
ourselves, only met with one example in bloom, besides that from what
our illustration was taken, and that was the specimen in the collection
of Mr. J. Broome, above referred to, as being the first which bloomed in
this country. Our figure was taken from a plant which flowered recently
in the grand collection of Sir Trevor Lawrence, Bart., M.P., who was
good enough to send it for our artist to sketch, and he has succeeded in
securing a very faithful likeness of it. We have no doubt our collectors
will meet with it in their journeyings in its native country, but it
must be rare there, or we should have obtained more of it; most
probably, like others of its genus, it is difficult to secure. It
resembles _Cattleya bicolor_ in its habit of growth, the stems bearing
two leaves, which grow about twelve to eighteen inches in length. The
sepals and petals are of a rich tawny orange colour, irregularly spotted
with purple, and the lip has the side lobes yellow, and is white in
front, and distinctly striped with violet. Mr. Spyers says it blooms in
September and October, when its fragrance, combined with its distinct
colour, renders it a very acceptable inmate of the Orchid house; it also
flowers at a time when few other Cattleyas are in bloom.

_Cattleya velutina_ requires the same treatment as the other Cattleyas,
that is, to be potted in peat soil with good drainage; it does not need
so much water at the roots as some kinds, but it should be borne in
mind, on the other hand, that it must not be allowed to shrivel, and
therefore a little moisture should always be supplied to the roots. If
the plant once gets into an unhealthy condition its recovery will be
very doubtful. Those of the Cattleyas, such as _C. bicolor_ and _C.
velutina_, which have very slender bulbs are more liable to go wrong
than those that form thick fleshy bulbs, the latter having more
substance from which to draw their support. They require to be kept near
the light, with very little shade, excepting just sufficient to keep
them from the burning sun.

Like other Cattleyas, this species is subject to the inroads of the
scale insect, which should be frequently sought for, and, if found,
promptly removed. The foliage should be kept in a plump condition and
not allowed to shrivel. In cleansing the leaves injury is often caused
by too hard rubbing, by which they become bruised; rather should they be
handled delicately, as, if once damaged, they cannot be restored to a
sound healthy appearance. A damaged leaf is not only a disfigurement,
but is of great injury to the health of the plant, by interfering with
the action of its pores. Cleanliness is one of the great secrets of
success in plant cultivation, but the operation of cleansing should be
taken in hand before the insects get a-head, or they will assuredly eat
into the leaves, which will thus become permanently injured at the
points of attack.


Dr. Ainsworth’s Orchids.—When in Manchester we had the pleasure of
visiting the collection of R. F. Ainsworth, Esq., M.D., in whose fine
and varied collection the plant that most especially attracted our
attention was _Masdevallia Chimæra_, the blossoms of which were very
large, each flower measuring seventeen inches across. The effect of
these beautiful and curiously spotted flowers hanging around the basket
was very striking. We have had it sent to us to figure, but the flowers
do not travel well; we hope, however, some day, when it is in bloom, to
be able to figure it. We also noticed, in the same house, a wonderfully
fine form of _Odontoglossum Alexandræ_, with broad sepals and petals of
beautiful white, while the centre of the petals is marked with a
pleasing rose colour, which gives it a very pretty appearance; the lip
is large, white, beautifully crisped round the edge, the upper part
bright orange-yellow. It was, altogether, a very showy flower. Mr.
Mitchell, the gardener, said it had been in bloom for several weeks, and
it was still fresh and fine when we saw it.

    [Illustration:  PL. 27.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM BREVIFOLIUM.]




                       ODONTOGLOSSUM BREVIFOLIUM.
                              [Plate 27.]
                   Native of the Cordillera of Peru.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ ovate-oblong, compressed, monophyllous.
  _Leaves_ short, oblong, two inches broad, and sometimes not much
  exceeding that in length, spreading. _Scape_ simple, radical, bearing
  at the apex a many-flowered erect raceme, the membranaceous bracts of
  which are oblong acute, and as long as the pedicels. _Flowers_ nearly
  or quite two inches in diameter, of a rich chestnut brown on the
  inner, and olive-green on the outer surface; _sepals_ roundish-ovate,
  somewhat undulated, narrowed at the base, of a bright chestnut-brown,
  narrowly bordered with yellow; _petals_ similar in size and colour,
  oblong-ovate; _lip_ clawed, auriculate, wedge-shaped, emarginate,
  shorter than the sepals, bright yellow, bearing at the base five warty
  tubercles, with a three-toothed appendage in front of them. _Column_
  small, the edges of the anther-bed serrated, and decurrent in the form
  of membranous wings.

  Odontoglossum brevifolium, _Lindley_ in _Bentham’s Plantæ
  Hartwegianæ_, 152; _Id._ _Folia Orchidacea_, art. _Odontoglossum_ no.
  61; _André_ in _Illustration Horticole_, 3 ser. t. 170; _Reichenbach,
  fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices Systematicæ_. vi. 846.


This very distinct species was first found by Hartweg, on the Peruvian
Andes, near Loxa, and was described by Lindley, in Mr. Bentham’s account
of the plants collected by that traveller. It appears to have been
introduced by M. Linden, and to have been first flowered in his
establishment, the figure published in _L’Illustration Horticole_ having
been derived from this source. The small compressed pseudobulbs are
formed at the end of a sucker or offshoot, which is invested by large
membranous bracts or scales, the upper of which covering the base of the
flower-scape is somewhat broader and leaf-like.

This Odontoglot ranks among the most distinct species of its genus, as
may indeed be seen by a glance at our illustration. It produces dense
spikes of its beautiful flowers, which are more in the way of those of
_Odontoglossum coronarium_ than of any other cultivated species; it,
however, blooms more freely. The spike of flowers we have here
represented was sent to us by Mons. F. Massange, of Liége, in whose
collection the gardener—Mr. Kramer—induces it to flower freely every
year. M. Massange is a great _connoisseur_ of Orchids, and in his
collection are to be found many rare and valuable specimens, which have
been frequently exhibited during the past few years, including the Liége
Exhibition of 1881.

_Odontoglossum brevifolium_ is a dwarf growing plant, and produces its
erect spikes of flowers from the side of the pseudobulbs. There were
seventeen blossoms on that which is here represented. The sepals and
petals are of a bright chestnut-brown, margined and slightly marked near
the base with yellow, the lip is rich yellow with two light brown
patches at its base. It is altogether a strikingly showy plant, and one
that should be always cultivated amongst Odontoglots for its
distinctness of colouring.

The treatment which we find to suit the plant, is to grow it in a basket
suspended from the roof, as it requires and enjoys all the light that
can be given to it; but, of course, it needs to be shaded from the
burning sun. The most suitable material in which to grow the plant is
sphagnum moss and fibrous peat. It requires also a good supply of water
in the growing season, so that it must be thoroughly drained. It thrives
best in a cool house in which the same temperature is maintained as is
found congenial to _Odontoglossum Alexandræ_, and others of that class.


Odontoglossum Londesboroughianum.—We have been under the impression that
this species was not so good as it was first reported to be, but we are
now of a different opinion. There are no doubt many varieties of the
plant, as is the case with nearly all Orchids. In their native countries
they are produced freely from seeds, all of the variations not being
equally good. If our collectors could only pick out the best, when in
bloom, we should be saved many disappointments, but of course they
cannot spend their time in doing this. We were agreeably surprised when
we paid a visit to the collection of G. W. Law-Scholefield, Esq.,
New-Hall-Hey, Rawtenstall, near Manchester, to see a fine spike of the
_O. Londesboroughianum_ with twenty-five of its large blossoms, much
finer than any we had ever seen before. The sepals and petals are
yellow, barred with brown; the lip is large, of a bright golden yellow,
and very showy, and, as the long spikes hung drooping among the white
and coloured flowers of the other Orchids the effect was very good. No
one could complain of having such a species as this, for it is a most
showy flower.


Cypripedium insigne.—When calling at Mrs. Haywood’s, Norris Green,
Liverpool, a few weeks ago, we were pleased to see a fine specimen of
this old Orchid, which was two feet in diameter; on nearly all the
numerous scapes there were two flowers, and very fine ones they were.
Mr. Bardney, the gardener, informed us that they come so every year,
which makes this plant the more interesting, as the character of the
species is merely to produce one flower on a stalk. This plant was grown
in the grand conservatory, in which there was a most wonderful display
of blossom, in fact, the grandest lot of greenhouse flowers we ever
remember to have seen in winter, consisting of Pelargoniumns, Primulas,
Camellias, Cyclamens, and the _Luculia gratissima_, with 40 or 50 heads
of bloom. There are not many Orchids at this place, but, what there are,
are doing well, and are well looked after.

    [Illustration:  PL. 28.
    ZYGOPETALUM GAUTIERI.]




                         ZYGOPETALUM GAUTIERI.
                              [Plate 28.]
                   Native of St. Catherine’s, Brazil.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ oblong, deeply furrowed, the younger ones
  ancipitous, attached to a branched creeping rhizome. _Leaves_
  fascicled, distichous, the outer ones shorter, the central ones
  narrowly elongate-oblong, plicate with a strongly developed costa, ten
  to twelve inches long, bright green. _Scape_ issuing from the centre
  of the leaf-tufts, and terminating in a drooping raceme of three to
  six flowers, furnished with elongate-oblong amplexicaul bracts, those
  subtending the flowers being nearly as long as the pedicels. _Flowers_
  large, showy, green blotched with brown, the lip purple with darker
  purple ruff in front of the column; _sepals_ and _petals_ oblong,
  acute, nearly equal, the petals directed upwards, all pale green
  transversely barred and blotched with purplish brown; _lip_ broad,
  three-lobed, furnished with an obtuse spur, the lateral lobes erect,
  rich deep purple, forming a crenated unguliform ruff or frill around
  the column, the middle lobe very large, two inches across, roundish,
  broader than long, apiculate, deep bluish purple, lighter at the edge.
  _Column_ short, half surrounded by the purple ruff, arcuate, the
  anther case yellow, with a projecting point at the apex.

  Zygopetalum Gautieri, _Lemaire_, _Illustration Horticole_, t. 535;
  _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 311.


This genus of Orchids does not comprise so many species as many others,
but among those which are known and introduced, are some which make very
useful autumn and winter flowering subjects, and which are well adapted
for decorating our stoves and Orchid houses. Amongst them occur some of
the oldest of cultivated Orchids, such as are generally to be met with
in good old-fashioned places. We remember to have seen plants of
_Zygopetalum Mackayi_ and _Z. crinitum_ some thirty years ago, also of
_Z. maxillare_—grand specimens with from seventy to a hundred flowers
upon them, and a magnificent sight they were, with their numerous spikes
hanging around the foliage, as represented in the plate, and being
similar in colour.

The species which we now desire to bring to the notice of our readers,
is a very lovely one, which has been sometimes considered as a variety
of _Zygopetalum maxillare_, but the flowers are larger, and it not only
blooms much earlier, but continues in blossom for several weeks. In
addition to this, it is a much freer grower than _Z. maxillare_. We have
had different plants in flower for several months, and then they seemed
as though they would continue blooming much longer; in fact this species
seems to flower whenever it makes its young growth—a peculiar feature
which renders it the most useful of its class.

Our plate was prepared from a plant which bloomed in the fine collection
of Mons. D. Massange, of Marche, in Belgium, under the care of Mr.
Wilcke, who is one of the most successful continental growers of
Orchids. We had the pleasure of seeing specimens from M. Massange’s
grand collection, exhibited at the great show held at Brussels in July,
1880.

_Zygopetalum Gautieri_ is a dwarf growing kind, attaining a height of
about twelve inches, and is provided with distinct plaited green
foliage. The flowers are large, and borne several together on the
spikes; the sepals and petals are green, blotched with purplish brown,
while the lip is of purplish blue, edged with a lighter tint of the same
colour.

There are several varieties of this species, varying from very pale
violet to a rich purplish blue, the variety here figured being one of
the darkest-coloured forms we have yet met with. The flowers are
particularly showy, and last a long time in perfection.

It is of easy cultivation, and not only free-growing but also
free-blooming. It does well in the Cattleya house, planted in peat and
moss, with good drainage, and it may be grown either in a pot or a
basket, or on a block of wood, or on the stem of a tree fern, on which
latter it is frequently imported from its native country. In its wild
state, it appears naturally to creep up these fern stems, and it must
look very beautiful growing in this way, since its drooping spikes
cannot fail to have a good effect when thus seen hanging among the green
foliage. It requires a good supply of water during the growing season,
but, when at rest, less will suffice. The plant needs plenty of light,
but it must be shaded from the fierce sun-rays during the summer months.


Lælia anceps Dawsoni.—One of the best specimens we have had the pleasure
of seeing of _L. anceps Dawsoni_ is in the collection of R. S. Dodgson,
Esq., Blackburn; it had four spikes of buds when we saw it in November
last; since then we have received a spike of three flowers, and a very
fine variety it is. Mr. Osman informs us that the plant has ten expanded
blossoms. It is one of the best plants and as good a variety as we have
met with; the sepals and petals are large, pure white, and of great
substance; the lip is bright rosy purple edged with white, the throat
orange, veined with purple. No doubt there are different varieties in
cultivation which were imported along with this some years ago. Mr.
Dodgson’s plant is grown suspended from the roof, and from its
appearance this seems to be the best method of growing it to perfection.
It likes plenty of light all the year round, and should be just kept
shaded from the burning sun.

    [Illustration:  PL. 29.
    CŒLOGYNE MASSANGEANA.]




                         CŒLOGYNE MASSANGEANA.
                              [Plate 29.]
                            Native of Assam.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ pyriform, three to four inches in height,
  smooth, bearing two leaves at the apex. _Leaves_ persistent,
  cuneate-oblong, acute, stalked, somewhat plicate, a foot and a half
  high including the stalk, and four inches broad. _Peduncle_ pendulous,
  produced from the base of the pseudobulbs, one and a half to two feet
  long, nigro-asperate; _bracts_ cuneate-oblong obtuse, much shorter
  than the pedicels. _Flowers_ showy, in loose racemes of two dozen or
  more, yellow with a brown lip; _sepals_ ligulate obtuse, somewhat
  keeled outside, light ochre-yellow; _petals_ linear-ligulate, of the
  same colour as the sepals; _lip_ three-lobed, concave, the side lobes
  semi-ovate, acute in front, of a beautiful maroon-brown with
  ochre-coloured veins, the middle lobe creamy white at the edge, with a
  large brown disk, short, transversely oval with an apiculus, and
  having three light yellow rather prominent toothletted keels extending
  from the base to the anterior lobe, and “six confluent rows of green
  retuse many-angled cells, reminding one of human molar teeth” in front
  of them. _Column_ light ochre-yellow, streaked with brown, winged in
  front, the anther-bed with a retuse membranous border.

  Cœlogyne Massangeana, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S., x., 684; _Floral Magazine_, 2 ser., t. 373.


The plant which we now bring under the notice of our readers belongs to
a rather extensive genus of Orchids, some of the species of which are
very beautiful, while others are not worth cultivating as decorative
plants. That which is now before us, is, however, an exceedingly
handsome and very remarkable species, which was imported from Assam, by
MM. Jacob-Makoy & Cie., of Liège, Belgium. Our illustration was taken
from a very fine plant, which produced no fewer than eight of its long
pendulous racemes of flowers, some of these having as many as
twenty-seven blossoms on them. This grand specimen was grown in the
notable collection of Mons. D. Massange, at the Château de Baillonville,
near Marche, in Belgium, in whose honour the species was named by
Professor Reichenbach. We had the pleasure of seeing this
extraordinarily fine plant, growing under pot-culture, in M. Massange’s
Cattleya house, and since then we have received the materials from which
our artist has made the capital representation which accompanies these
remarks. In regard to its botanical affinities it stands near to the
Bornean _Cœlogyne asperata_, which is sometimes called _C. Lowii_.

One remarkable feature of this _Cœlogyne Massangeana_ is the
extraordinary shortness of time which it takes to develope its rather
ample spikes of flowers; these are often pushed up from the pseudobulbs
in their corkscrew-like fashion, and become extended to their full
length in a very few days, the buds swelling off at once, and the
flowers very soon appearing in full beauty, in which state they continue
for four or five weeks.

We have seen a wonderfully fine example of this plant in the grand
collection of R. Smith, Esq., Brentham Park, Stirling; this was
suspended from the roof, and bore several fine flower-spikes. Mr. Smith
regards this as one of the most beautiful Cœlogynes in cultivation. When
we saw the plant, it was overhanging a wonderful specimen of _Cattleya
exoniensis_, a grand variety, and there were also many other fine
Cattleyas in the same house.

_Cœlogyne Massangeana_ is a free-growing evergreen plant, with stout
pseudobulbs from three to four inches in height, each supporting a pair
of light green plicate leaves, which are about eighteen inches high, and
about four inches broad. The flower-spikes are produced from the base of
the pseudobulbs, and, when the plants are in vigorous health, they
frequently attain the length of eighteen inches, or sometimes two feet.
The sepals and petals are of a light yellow-ochre colour; the lip rich
brown, its upper part or side lobes creamy yellow, lined with brown. The
plant flowers at various times of the year. We have more than once had
it in bloom twice in one year, and it continues for several weeks in a
state of freshness and beauty.

In its native country, Assam, this species is found growing on the
branches and stems of trees. Here, provided it receives proper
treatment, it is a very free-growing Orchid, and is also easy of
increase, as it often produces two growths from one bulb. It will thrive
either in a basket or in a pot, but, when in bloom, it should be
suspended from the roof in order that it may be seen to the best
advantage, to accomplish which, if it be grown in a pot, some wire may
be fixed around the rim by which to hook it up. When growing it may
occupy any part of the Cattleya house, but it should be placed so that
it can obtain plenty of light. When hung up near the glass it must be
shaded from the burning sun. With us it thrives well in good fibrous
peat, and we have found it to be a free-rooting plant, requiring to be
kept moist during the growing season; indeed, we never allow the plants
to become too dry, but just supply them with sufficient moisture to
prevent them from shrivelling. Every effort must be made to keep the
foliage clean, and free from insects, in respect to which the cultivator
should adopt and act up to the golden maxim—“Prevention is better than
cure.”


Cymbidium eburneum.—In our remarks on this plant, under Plate 25, we
have inadvertently referred to it as producing but one flower on a
scape. This, however, is not quite correct; as, although the scapes each
usually bear but a solitary blossom, we have known them to produce two,
or sometimes even three flowers.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 30.
    LÆLIA ELEGANS ALBA.]




                          LÆLIA ELEGANS ALBA.
                              [Plate 30.]
                           Native of Brazil.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ terete, somewhat club-shaped, about eighteen inches
  in height, the weaker ones bearing one, the stronger two, leaves at
  the apex. _Leaves_ solitary or in pairs, ligulate-oblong, from six
  inches to a foot in length, very thick and leathery in texture, of a
  bright green colour. _Scape_ two to three-flowered, issuing from a
  terminal oblong compressed bract, about three inches in length.
  _Flowers_ white and crimson-purple, large and very handsome, about six
  inches in expansion; _sepals_ oblong lanceolate, acute, plane, pure
  white; _petals_ rather shorter than the sepals, broadly-lanceolate,
  undulated at the margins, pure white; _lip_ three inches long,
  three-lobed, the lateral lobes rolled over the column, the front
  portion spreading, undulated, and marked within the edge with a blotch
  of crimson-purple, the middle lobe roundish, flabellately expanded,
  crispato-undulate, of a rich crimson-purple, the colour breaking out
  near the tip into crimson veins on a purplish ground, and extended
  into a claw-like base through the pale yellowish disk. _Column_ about
  as long as the convolute base of the lip, enclosed.

  Lælia elegans var. alba, _Williams_, _Catalogue_ 1881, 68.


We have here one of the most beautiful of this charming class of
Orchids, and one which no Orchid fancier can fail to admire. The showy
blossoms of the forms of this species offer many shades of colour, those
of the variety before us being exceedingly chaste and delicate. The
accompanying figure is a good representation of this charming variety,
and was prepared from a sketch of a well-grown specimen which bloomed in
the fine collection of W. Lee, Esq., Downside, Leatherhead, under the
care of Mr. Woolford, the gardener.

This Lælia grows about eighteen inches high; it is furnished with bold
thick foliage of a pleasant green, and produces its blossoms in June and
July, continuing for about three weeks in beauty. The sepals and petals
are of a pure white, while the lip is of a rich magenta-crimson, the two
colours making a well-marked and charming contrast. This delicately
beautiful variety is extremely rare.

_Lælia elegans alba_ is like the Cattleyas in its growth, with the
exception of the stems being more slender, most of them producing two
short leaves about six inches in length. The plants require the same
temperature and the same material in which to grow as the allied
Cattleyas, and also about the same amount of water during the growing
season. The rest required is also the same as for Cattleyas. There are
some of the species, such as _L. albida_, _autumnalis_, _majalis_,
_pumila_, and others, which will thrive better in a cooler temperature.
They are all subject to insects, which should be diligently looked
after. White scale is sometimes troublesome, and if allowed to remain on
them will disfigure the foliage by causing yellow spots. Thrips will
also attack them, and increase very fast if they are not kept under by
adopting the usual remedies.


Shading Orchids.—This is a subject of the greatest importance in Orchid
culture, and one that is often overlooked until it is too late—the
mischief being done. What is required is a strong durable material that
will wear well, and, where rollers are used, stand the strain upon it.
It must also be understood that shading does not consist of merely
daubing upon the glass some opaque material, such as paint, summer
cloud, whitening, or the like, which though all very well as palliatives
in positions where rollers cannot be used, such as at the ends and sides
of a house, are greatly to be deprecated as a shading for the roof, for
this reason, that in our English climate we are so subject to sudden
changes of the weather, that were such a permanent shading to be used,
we should frequently, especially during dull weather, have our plants in
comparative darkness when they should be getting all the light possible.
This cannot fail to lead to bad results and produce a sickly growth.
Some growers use thick canvas; indeed, we have done so ourselves many
years ago, but, by experience, we have found out the ill effects of it,
for when we employed this kind of shading, we found the plants under its
influence became weak and sickly, producing small puny flower-spikes. A
lighter shading was then employed, and the difference was marvellous;
the plants assumed quite a different aspect. It was at this time that we
were exhibiting at Chiswick the fine specimens of East Indian
Orchids—Aërides, Saccolabiums, Vandas, Dendrobiums, and many others—such
as we seldom see equalled now. Since then we have used thinner shadings,
with the best results. Our Vandas thus treated have always been strong
and healthy, with broader foliage, producing their flower-spikes as
often as three times a year, with the flowers of a good colour, lasting
a long time in perfection; in fact we are never without flower, always
having a good display. We refer more particularly to the suavis and
tricolor section of the genus. Some people imagine Vandas do not flower
till they attain a large size, but such is not the case if they are
properly grown, and thin shading is used. Our experience leads us to the
belief that all Orchids, with a few exceptions, require a thin shading,
that is to say, one that, while warding off the direct rays of the sun,
will allow the light to enter through it. To arrive at this result we
use a strong, durable, cotton netting, woven in small squares, close
enough to exclude the rays of the sun, while the light penetrates it
with but little interruption. This netting stands exposure to the
weather much longer than canvas, and on that account is cheaper in the
long run. We have used this material for some years; in the case of Cool
Orchids, Mexican, and East Indian kinds, with the best results, the
netting being attached to rollers with appropriate gear. For the cool
Orchid houses we employ raised blinds, upon which we hope to speak
further shortly. The blinds can be managed with but little trouble. In
the winter we take them off the house and put them in a dry place until
they are required again in the ensuing spring.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 31.
    CALANTHE VEITCHII.]




                           CALANTHE VEITCHII.
                              [Plate 31.]
                            A Garden Hybrid.


  Terrestrial. _Pseudobulbs_ fleshy, conical, bluntly angular, four to
  six inches in height. _Leaves_ deciduous, about two from the apex of
  each pseudobulb, lanceolate, narrowed both towards the base and apex,
  plicate or plaited, of a bright green, produced before the flowers.
  _Scapes_ radical, downy, invested in the lower part with sheathing
  bracts, and each supporting a tall showy raceme of flowers, sometimes
  reaching three to four feet long. _Flowers_ abundant, each subtended
  by an ovate bract, of a very attractive and pleasing tint of rich deep
  rosy pink, darker in some varieties; _sepals_ oblong lanceolate, the
  dorsal one erect, the lateral ones spreading, deep rose-pink; _petals_
  of the same form and colour, patent, directed upwards; _lip_ adherent
  to the column, round which it is rolled at the base, front part
  clawed, and expanded into a squarish four-lobed limb, rich rose-pink,
  deepening almost to crimson around the creamy white eye or centre, the
  spur straight, downy. _Column_ small, terete, downy at the back.

  Calanthe Veitchii, _Lindley_, _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, 1859, 1016;
  _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5375; _Bateman_, _Second Century of
  Orchids_, t. 106; _Jennings_, _Orchids_, t. 48; _Floral Magazine_, t.
  280; _Williams_, _Orchid Growers’ Manual_, 5 ed., 109.


This Hybrid is one of the most distinct and charming of Orchids, as well
as one of the most useful for winter decoration. Our illustration was
prepared from some admirably grown materials which were kindly sent to
us from the rich collection of William Leach, Esq., of Oakley,
Fallowfield, near Manchester, where we have seen as many as one hundred
flower spikes of one of the most highly coloured forms of this somewhat
variable plant in full beauty; and, intermixed as they were with the
white _Calanthe vestita_, the effect produced was exceedingly pleasing
and attractive. Mr. Swan seems to have hit upon the most successful
method of cultivating these very charming plants, for some of the spikes
bore as many as forty flowers. He evidently knows also how to arrange
the plants to advantage, namely, by placing them in rows among the
foliage of the East Indian Orchids, so that the Calanthes, blooming as
they do without their leaves, have their beauty enhanced by the foliage
of the associated plants, especially that of the Aërides and Vandas.

_Calanthe Veitchii_ is of deciduous habit, losing its foliage just as it
comes into flower. We have, however, occasionally seen it with leaves
accompanying its flowers, though its natural habit is to lose them. It
produces flower spikes from three to four feet or more in length, and
sometimes bears as many as fifty flowers on one spike. The plants are
free-blooming and continue in flower for two months. The sepals and
petals, as well as the lip, are of a rich rosy pink colour. A gay
appearance may be kept up throughout the dull months of winter by having
a sufficient number of plants and starting them successively into
blossom.

These Calanthes are very accommodating, since they will thrive well in
baskets suspended from the roof, as well as in pots suspended by wire in
the same way as the baskets; they will also thrive in pots standing on
the tables, where room is not an object. If grown in baskets, they will
require more water in their growing season. We prefer them grown in this
manner where there is room, as they look so pleasing with their spikes
hanging gracefully from the roof. Where hundreds of spikes have to be
produced, as for instance is the case with Mr. C. Penny, of Sandringham
Gardens, for decorating the Prince of Wales’ table, the effect produced
is charming, and even for filling large vases they form a most elegant
adornment.

They are of easy cultivation when they get the treatment they require.
Like all other deciduous and bulbous plants their blooming season
follows that of the completion of the growth of the bulbs, and their
growing season commences when they have finished blooming, after which
they will soon begin to throw up their young growths. When this is
observed, let them be fresh potted. We have found it best to do this
every year, as they lose all their old roots annually. We shake the soil
away and cut off all the roots, and repot them, when, as soon as they
begin to grow, they will send out their new roots into fresh soil. The
material we use for potting is good rough fibrous loam and leaf mould,
with a little rotten manure, mixing them well together, and giving good
drainage with a layer of rough peat and moss on the top of it. In
potting, fill the pot up with the soil and place the bulb on the top,
just making it firm; it will soon root and support itself. If planted in
baskets, it is necessary to place some rough fibrous peat round the
sides and at the bottom to keep the soil from washing out; fill the
basket up with the same kind of compost as that recommended for the
pots, with drainage at the bottom; place the bulbs upright in the
basket, about three in number, on the top of the soil, and finish by
giving a little water. After the plants get into growth and are making
roots freely, they should always be kept moist until they have finished
their growth, when a less copious supply will suffice; and after they
have bloomed they may be kept dry for a time until they are ready for
potting. When the plants are in vigorous growth a little manure water
may, with advantage, be applied to their roots once or twice a week, but
it must be well diluted before being used, as, if given too strong, it
might destroy the roots.

We find the East India house to suit these Calanthes best, or they will
thrive well in a house where stove plants are grown. They are propagated
by separating the pseudobulbs at the time they are potted, and as they
generally make two growths from one bulb the increase is comparatively
rapid. Like other orchidaceous plants, they must be kept free from
insects.

    [Illustration:  PL. 32.
    ONCIDIUM HÆMATOCHILUM.]




                         ONCIDIUM HÆMATOCHILUM.
                              [Plate 32.]
                         Native of New Grenada.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ none or obsolete, the leaves and
  flower-scapes springing directly from the axils of the scaly bracts
  which surround the crown. _Leaves_ solitary, flat, oblong, acute,
  leathery in texture, dull green spotted with reddish brown, nine to
  twelve inches long. _Scape_ radical, deep red, supporting a dense
  panicle of green spotted crimson-lipped flowers. _Flowers_ about an
  inch and a half across, showy on account of their rich colouring and
  markings; _sepals_ oval-oblong, yellowish green, thickly marked with
  irregular transverse bands of rich reddish brown; _petals_ oblong,
  spathulate, wavy, similar in colour to the sepals, but less heavily
  marked; _lip_ clawed, with a pair of auricles at the base, the claw
  and auricles deep magenta-rose colour, the front expanded portion
  roundish or transversely reniform, of a deep sanguineous crimson, and
  having the margin yellow, closely mottled with deep rose-crimson, the
  disk furnished with a flexuose crest shaped like the letter W, and
  thence raised into an eminence with a toothlet on each side. _Column_
  short, with rounded wings curved downwards and somewhat lobed.

  Oncidium hæmatochilum, _Lindley_, in _Paxton’s Flower Garden_, i., t.
  6; _Id._, re-issue, t. 26; _Id._, _Folia Orchidacea_, art. _Oncidium_,
  No. 132; _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices
  Systematicæ_, vi., 783.

  Oncidium luridum purpuratum, _Loddiges_, _List_—_fide_ Lindley.


This is undoubtedly one of our oldest Orchids—one that we recollect to
have seen in bloom with the Messrs. Loddiges, in their noble collection
of Orchids, about thirty years ago. We have always been under the
impression that it was one of the prettiest of the spotted Oncidiums,
but, although we have occasionally bloomed it, since then we have seen
it in very few collections. We were accordingly very greatly pleased to
meet with a remarkably fine example of it in the collection of G. W. L.
Schofield, Esq., of Rawtenstall, near Manchester, from which our
illustration was taken. The plant bore two flower-spikes, one of which
was three feet six inches in length, bearing forty fine blossoms, and
was a most beautiful example of the species; the other was shorter, and
from this our drawing was made, as our page would not afford space for
the representation of the larger spike. Our readers will, however, be
enabled from the description and figure to form a good idea of the
beauty of this rare species when well grown. Mr. Schofield is a great
lover of good Orchids, and apparently intends having a fine collection
of them, as he has had houses built for the different classes; his
gardener also takes great interest in the plants, and consequently they
are closely looked after and well cared for.

The _Oncidium hæmatochilum_ is a very compact-growing plant, with leaves
from nine to twelve inches in height, and two and a half inches broad,
of a dark green colour, spotted with brown. The sepals and petals are of
a greenish yellow, mottled with crimson; the lip is of a rich crimson,
edged with yellow, and spotted round the margin with magenta-rose
colour. It flowers in November, the blossoms continuing for several
weeks in perfection, and is a plant that will no doubt become popular,
as it blooms at a time when flowers are in request. The specimen we are
describing was grown in a basket in the Cattleya house, in peat and
moss, which form an unexceptionable compost for it, with good drainage,
and a moderate supply of water in the growing season. It is best
suspended from the roof where it may obtain plenty of light, but it does
not like bright sunshine, and consequently must be shaded in sunny
weather.

The Oncidiums are a class of Orchids among which occur some most showy
and beautiful species; while almost every colour we could mention is to
be found represented among them. They come from different regions, and
in consequence their treatment must vary. Some of them rank among our
finest exhibition plants, as well as amongst the best for the decoration
of our stoves and Orchid houses. We often see fine specimens of
Oncidiums in our grand old collections of plants where there is no
pretence at growing a collection of Orchids, but where they are merely
cultivated for cutting purposes. What is more airy and elegant for vases
than the inflorescence of _Oncidium flexuosum_, or even _O.
sphacelatum_, or that of many others we could mention if space would
allow? What more brilliant than such species as _O. varicosum_ and its
variety _O. Rogersii_, _O. ampliatum majus_, _O. tigrinum_, _O.
Marshallianum_, or _O. macranthum_?


Dendrobium Findleyanum.—This plant is now (January, 1882) finely in
flower in the collection of J. C. Bowring, Esq., Windsor Forest. It must
be a grand specimen, as Mr. Clinkaberry, the gardener, informs us that
it has one hundred and ninety-two expanded blossoms. We have never
before heard of such a well-flowered specimen as this; indeed, large
plants of this species are somewhat rare. It is a most curious grower,
and very remarkable for its long tapering compressed and deeply nodose
stem-like pseudobulbs. The flowers are large, white, tipped with rosy
pink, in the same way as those of _D. Wardianum_, and they are produced
in great profusion. It is a plant that takes but little room, and should
be in every collection.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 33.
    CATTLEYA SUPERBA SPLENDENS.]




                      CATTLEYA SUPERBA SPLENDENS.
                              [Plate 33.]
            Native of Brazil in the region of the Rio Negro.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ slender, subterete, furrowed, with distant nodes,
  nearly a foot in height. _Leaves_ in pairs, ovate or ovate-oblong,
  obtuse, barely four inches in length, of a deep bluish green colour
  and stout coriaceous texture. _Scape_ four to five-flowered, issuing
  from a terminal oblong obtuse compressed sheathing bract, of a pale
  brown colour, which is about two inches long and three-quarters of an
  inch broad. _Flowers_ richly coloured, nearly six inches in breadth;
  _sepals_ elliptic-lanceolate, plane, about two and a half inches long,
  of a deep rich purplish rose colour; _petals_ of the same colour
  somewhat broader and longer, rhomboid, more or less undulated at the
  margin in the upper half; _lip_ about two inches long, three-lobed,
  the basal lobes elongately connivent into a tube acute in front, of a
  rich magenta-crimson, white at the base, middle lobe transversely
  rounded, broader than long, emarginate, narrowed into a claw, the
  front portion of the same rich crimson colour, the disk and interior
  of the tube yellow, the former traversed by five elevated golden
  yellow lines. _Column_ enclosed.

  Cattleya superba splendens, _Lemaire_, _Illustration Horticole_ xvi.,
  t. 605; _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 4 ed., 127; 5 ed., 132.


The plant we are now about to describe is one of the most magnificent
members of its genus, so far as regards the brilliant colouring of its
flowers. This may be seen by a reference to the accompanying
illustration, which was taken from a fine plant that flowered at the
Victoria Nursery, and was subsequently purchased by William Lee, Esq. of
Downside, Leatherhead. The plant was seen to great advantage when
suspended in a basket from the roof of the Orchid-house, and in this
position was greatly admired, by _connoisseurs_ on account of its rich
and brilliant colours. The plants of _Cattleya superba_ vary
considerably in the colour of their flowers, those of the original or
type form being well represented in the first series of _Warner’s Select
Orchidaceous Plants_ (t. 24), where a most beautiful spike with six of
its really superb flowers is shown.

The variety which we now introduce to the notice of our
readers—_Cattleya superba splendens_—is one of distinct character, and
of unparalleled beauty. It comes from a different country, viz., the Rio
Negro region of Para instead of Guiana. The plant is of compact growth
like _C. superba_, and generally flowers during July and August; the
stems (pseudobulbs) are ten to twelve inches in height; the leaves are
produced in pairs, and are longer and more pointed, and its splendidly
coloured flowers are produced four or five together in the spike from
the top of the stem when it is making its growth. The individual
blossoms are as much as five inches across, and are well expanded, the
sepals and petals being of a bright but delicate rose colour, and the
lip white at the base, the front and side lobes rich magenta-crimson,
the disk and interior of the tube being of a bright golden yellow. The
plant continues in blossom for three or four weeks if the flowers are
kept from damp; indeed, all Cattleya blooms retain their freshness for a
longer period if kept dry, especially the large light-flowered forms of
_C. Mossiæ_, _C. Trianæ_, _C. Mendelii_, &c., which soon become spotted
if the atmosphere surrounding them is much charged with moisture.

_Cattleya superba_ is not in general well cultivated, but we have seen
some specimens which were grown with extraordinary skill and success in
the select collection of O. Schneider, Esq., of Cromwell Grange,
Fallowfield, near Manchester. These specimens, as many as nine in
number, were suspended in baskets from the roof of the warm house. They
were grown from imported plants, and we have noticed them in the same
position growing and blooming freely for the past three years, and, as
they succeed so well, we should certainly recommend their being retained
in the same situation. It is a golden rule for cultivators that when a
particular kind of plant is found to thrive in a certain position, it
should be kept there, so long at least as the conditions are suitable.
In the instance just referred to the plants were suspended close to the
glass, where they enjoyed a great abundance of light, and this was
possibly the secret of their success. Other important considerations are
that the plants do not like to be disturbed and will not bear cutting
up.

It is necessary at all times to keep sweet healthy material about the
roots by removing the old effete soil and replacing it by that which is
fresh and sound. We find rough fibrous peat and charcoal to suit it, but
this must be accompanied by good drainage. We have seen them thrive well
on blocks of wood, but when grown in this way they require more water.
If cultivated in baskets they also need a good supply during the season
of growth. In winter less will suffice, merely enough being given to
keep the bulbs in a plump condition. As soon as they show signs of
growth, more water should be given, but it is necessary to avoid wetting
the young growths, as this often causes them to damp off, and when this
is the case the succeeding growth will be weakly and unable to develop
blossoms.

The plants should be kept free from insects; sometimes thrips will
attack the young growths, but it should be speedily removed, as, if
allowed to remain, it will soon make great havoc.

    [Illustration:  PL. 34.
    PAPHINIA CRISTATA.]




                           PAPHINIA CRISTATA.
                              [Plate 34.]
                     Native of Trinidad and Guiana.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ small, clustered, oblong-ovate, compressed,
  somewhat furrowed, bearing one to three leaves at the apex, and
  leaf-like scales at the base. _Leaves_ oblong-lanceolate, plicate,
  submembranaceous, spreading, about eight inches in height. _Scapes_
  proceeding from the base of the pseudobulbs, pendent, two or
  three-flowered, clothed with loose brown membranaceous bracts.
  _Flowers_ smooth, spreading, whitish on the outside, beautifully
  marked with purple lines within, about three and a half inches across;
  _sepals_ lanceolate acute, fleshy, pale straw colour, almost entirely
  covered by thin transverse lines of chocolate-purple; _petals_ similar
  in form and colour, but somewhat narrower; _lip_ much smaller than the
  foregoing, fleshy, tripartite, almost entirely of a rich purplish
  black, ovate in outline, shortly unguiculate, with four stalked glands
  on the reddish orange purple-spotted claw, the lateral lobes
  sickle-shaped, the middle lobe rhomboidal, terminated by a tuft of
  club-shaped fimbriæ; disk crested, bidentate, with a few deep yellow
  spots down the centre. _Column_ club-shaped, semiterete, greenish at
  the base, the upper portion auriculate, with a projecting tooth on
  each side, deep yellow.

  Paphinia cristata, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, 1843, misc. 14;
  _Lyons_, _Treatise on Orchidaceous Plants_, 203; _Van Houtte_, _Flore
  des Serres_, iv., t. 335; _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 4836;
  _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, vi.,
  614; _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 265; _Bateman_, _2nd
  Century of Orchidaceous Plants_, t. 117.

  Maxillaria cristata, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, t. 1811.


_Paphinia_ is a genus of very limited extent, and of which but few
species are at present known. That now before us is a very old and
familiar species, one of the best known amongst them, and a singularly
handsome little plant. It was the _Maxillaria cristata_ of early Orchid
days, and considerable quantities of it were formerly imported, but it
has now become very rare. We have flowered several plants during the
past year at the Victoria Nursery, where they were greatly admired by
those who saw them. It is a plant which comparatively few persons
interested in Orchids have met with in blossom, and of which our plate
gives a very correct representation. The flowers are remarkably curious,
not only for their structure, but also for their colouring, as will be
seen by reference to our illustration. The plant has, moreover, a very
peculiar mode of throwing out its flower-spikes.

We have also flowered _Paphinia rugosa_, another very singular and
pretty plant, after the same style, but differing in colour, and well
worth cultivation. They occupy but little space in the Orchid-houses,
and are best grown in small pans suspended near the glass where they
have the full benefit of the light, but must be shaded from the sun
since their thin-textured leaves would suffer injury from too complete
an exposure.

_Paphinia cristata_, is a low-growing plant, with small shiny
pseudobulbs, and light green plicate foliage about eight inches in
height. It is a free-blooming species, generally producing three flowers
on a scape which proceeds from the base of the pseudobulb after that has
completed its growth. The flowers last in beauty for about a fortnight,
and are produced at different periods of the year. The sepals and petals
are nearly covered with transverse parallel lines of dark
chocolate-purple on a creamy yellow ground; the lip is coloured in a
similar manner, and furnished with some curious tufted fringes.

These plants are not so easy to cultivate as some other Orchids; but, by
bestowing on them a little extra care and attention, they may be kept in
a thriving and healthy condition. We find them to grow best in small
pans, nearly filled with drainage, and a lump of charcoal on the top of
it; place the plant on the top of this with but little rough fibrous
peat or live sphagnum moss about the roots, and so that it is elevated a
little above the rim, as it has the peculiarity of throwing its
flower-spike downwards.

This species is a native of Guiana, and of the adjacent island of
Trinidad. In the latter it is found growing on decayed branches of trees
in the neighbourhood of the mud lake. In the former it occurs in the
warmer parts of Demerara, and, consequently, must be cultivated in the
warm house, and kept in a moist atmosphere during the season of its
growth; when at rest, however, a smaller quantity of water will suffice,
but it should never be allowed to shrivel, as, when once its condition
becomes bad, it is very difficult to restore its health.


Odontoglossum Alexandræ flaveolum.—Whoever expected ten years ago to see
a yellow-flowered _Odontoglossum Alexandræ_ (?) No one, we should think,
unless it were by a great stretch of the imagination. However, here is
one from the fine collection of G. Hardy, Esq., of Timperley,
Manchester. The flowers in every respect resemble those of _O.
Alexandræ_, except in their colour, which is a bright canary-yellow. The
spike before us bears fifteen expanded flowers, and is one of the
greatest surprises we have had the good fortune to meet with for a long
time. It is true that distinct varieties of this “the Queen of Orchids”
are turning up almost every day, but one seldom has a chance of seeing
an entirely new break of colour of this sort. We believe that a variety
with yellow flowers bloomed some time ago in the Broomfield collection,
but the colour was not so decided in Mr. Warner’s plant as it is in the
case now before us.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 35.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM ANDERSONIANUM.]




                      ODONTOGLOSSUM ANDERSONIANUM.
                              [Plate 35.]
                         Native of New Grenada.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ ligulate-pyriform, costate, two or three
  inches high. _Leaves_ broadly linear, acute, about a foot long, of a
  light green colour, two from the top of each pseudobulb, with
  occasionally another from its base. _Scape_ radical, spreading, more
  or less drooping, supporting a branching raceme about two feet long.
  _Flowers_ resembling those of _Odontoglossum Alexandræ_, but smaller,
  prettily spotted; _sepals_ ovate-oblong, acute, slightly crispy,
  creamy white, heavily and irregularly blotched on the lower half with
  bright chestnut-brown, the attenuated upper half unspotted; _petals_
  similar in form and colour, the blotches which are also on the lower
  half smaller, and more thickly placed; _lip_ from a cuneate base,
  pandurate, narrow in front, apiculate, distinctly wavy and toothed,
  creamy white, yellow at the base, with fewer and smaller brown spots;
  disk deep yellow, with a prominent crest dividing in front into two
  divergent horns. _Column_ greenish towards the base, brown in front,
  the wings and anther-case white.

  Odontoglossum Andersonianum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’
  Chronicle_, 1868, 599; _Id._ 1872, 41; _Floral Magazine_, 2 ser., t.
  45.


The charming _Odontoglossum Andersonianum_, supposed to be a wild mule
between _O. Alexandræ_ (_crispum_) and _O. præstans_ or _O. gloriosum_,
is one of the many prettily spotted Odontoglots which have been
introduced into our collections during the past few years, and among
which new varieties are continually appearing. One of the best forms of
this plant which has come under our notice is that represented in the
accompanying plate, prepared from a very beautiful specimen which
bloomed last year among many other fine Odontoglots, well cultivated in
the collection of Messrs. William Thomson & Sons, of Clovenfords near
Galashiels.

The _Odontoglossum Andersonianum_ is a compact-growing plant, with
pyriform pseudobulbs two to three inches high, pale green leaves, and
gracefully drooping branched flower-spikes about two feet in length. The
sepals and petals are at first creamy white, spotted with purplish
brown, the lip being also white, but less heavily spotted. The plant is
of free-blooming habit, the flowers continuing fresh and perfect for a
period of five or six weeks. It is exceedingly difficult to recognize
this form until it produces its blossoms, as its growth is remarkably
similar to that of _O. Alexandræ_. Indeed there are many forms and
varieties of this particular group which it is impossible to recognize
until their flowers are seen; and, though cultivators may sometimes feel
assured of the identity of individual plants, the production of flowers
not unfrequently proves them to be mistaken.

_Odontoglossum Andersonianum_ requires the same treatment as _O.
Alexandræ_ and other cool Orchids, also the same amount of water. The
plants must have good fibrous peat to grow in, and plenty of drainage,
as they need to be freely supplied with water all the year round, and
this, if allowed to become stagnant, would prove very injurious to them.
The material in which they are grown must also be clean and sweet; and
though they must never be over-potted, sufficient space should be
allowed for their roots. We have sometimes seen Odontoglots in pots far
too large for them, and though this may tend to make the plants more
important-looking, yet it will eventually spoil them, as the larger
amount of soil becomes soddened with water, and this produces rotting of
the roots.


Raised Blinds for Orchid Houses.—During the summer months we have found
Raised Blinds very beneficial to the growth of Orchids, especially to
those requiring cool-house culture. When the hot summer’s sun is shining
upon the glass, it is very difficult, where Raised Blinds are not
employed, to keep the temperature sufficiently low. The glass roof of
the structure upon which the sun is shining becomes very hot, even when
shaded with ordinary blinds; but if Raised Blinds are used a current of
air is allowed to pass over the entire surface of the roof, and the
glass is kept comparatively cool. The effect of this is to decrease very
appreciably the internal temperature of the house; and the moisture,
which would otherwise be dried up by the burning heat of the sun,
produces a nice humid genial atmosphere in which Orchids delight. Having
thus far referred to the advantages to be derived from the use of this
method of shading, we may now explain briefly the mode of construction.
Supposing that the house to be furnished with Raised Blinds is an
ordinary span-roofed structure, it is necessary in the first place to
provide a second ridge elevated about six inches above the top of the
existing one. This should not consist of a solid plank, but of a strip
of timber sufficiently strong to bear the weight and strain of the
blinds and roller, and should be supported on blocks of wood placed at
intervals in order to allow the current of air from below to find an
outlet, which would not be the case if a solid ridge-board were adopted.
Having arranged for the ridge, the next thing is to provide supports for
the rollers; either wood or iron may be used for this purpose, but we
have found iron to be the lightest looking and the most durable. Where
the length of the rafters does not exceed say eight feet, half-inch rod
iron will be found to be strong enough, and this should be cut into
proper lengths, with the lower end turned up in a semi-circular form, so
as to catch the roller when it descends, and prevent it from running off
the supports. These supporting rods should be fixed to the bars or
rafters of the house, about six inches above the woodwork, by being
welded to vertical iron stays, which latter should be flattened out at
the base, and provided with holes so that they can be screwed to the
rafters or bars of the roof. In this way a strong support for the blinds
to roll upon will be formed; the blinds themselves can be attached to
the elevated ridge in the ordinary way, and the gearing usually employed
for the purpose will be found to answer well for pulling them up or
down. Many Orchid growers have already adopted these Raised Blinds with
very beneficial results.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 36.
    CYPRIPEDIUM POLITUM.]




                          CYPRIPEDIUM POLITUM.
                              [Plate 36.]
                             Garden Hybrid.


  Epiphytal. Acaulescent. _Leaves_ radical, distichous, coriaceous,
  oblong, acute, palish green thickly chequered with dark bottle-green
  markings, the under side dull reddish purple. _Scapes_ solitary in the
  leaf axils, pubescent, purplish, terminating in a lanceolate sharply
  keeled bract, from which the solitary blossom emerges. _Flowers_
  medium-sized, peculiar in form, rather showy; _dorsal sepals_
  ovate-acute, ciliate, the inner surface polished, suffused with
  reddish purple in the lower part, whitish towards the tip, traversed
  by numerous green veins of which the alternate ones are longer and
  stouter than the rest, all of them distinctly marked on the outer
  surface; _lateral connate sepals_ smaller, ciliate, greenish white
  with green veins, rather shorter than the lip; _petals_ linear-oblong,
  about two and a half inches in length, glossy, deflexed (more so than
  in the figure), ciliate with a fringe of unequal black hairs, bright
  wine-red, greenish towards the base, where it is marked with several
  Indian-purple warts most abundant near the upper edge, exterior
  surface green; _lip_ narrowly pouch-shaped, nearly as long as the
  petals, suffused in front with the same purplish red tint, and marked
  thickly with green veins at the sides and back, the basal auricles
  erect, obtuse, interior surface green, dotted with wine-red, the
  incurved margins of the claw greenish yellow, with reddish spots.
  _Staminode_ transverse, yellowish green, with two large exterior teeth
  in front and a small inner tooth, light brown with green markings.

  Cypripedium politum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S. xiv., 525.


This new Lady’s Slipper is one of a batch raised some few years since by
Robert Warner, Esq., of Broomfield, near Chelmsford, who has been
successful in producing several very good forms by the process of
hybridisation. The plants are of dwarf habit, free-growing, and
free-blooming, each small growth bringing forth its flower. This
_Cypripedium politum_ has been flowered for several years past by Mr.
Warner, and thus its characteristic features and its constancy are well
ascertained. There are also some other distinct kinds obtained through
the same cross, some of which we hope to figure on a future occasion. We
should expect that the cross was made between _C. barbatum superbum_ and
_C. venustum_.

_Cypripedium politum_ is a plant of compact habit and of free growth.
The leaves are of a distinct and well-marked character, as will be seen
in the very accurate portrait furnished by our artist. They are oblong,
acute, about five inches long, and somewhat over an inch broad, of a
beautiful light green, barred and chequered with a very deep or
bottle-green, which gives it a very pleasing appearance; the
under-surface is stained with a deep reddish wine-purple. The downy
flower-scapes are also purple, some six to eight inches in height, each
supporting a solitary flower, in which the dorsal sepal is ovate,
polished, flushed in the lower part with purplish red and spotted with
purple at the base, the upper part white, and the whole traversed by
bright green veins which are alternately long and short. The petals are
oblong, broadest at the apex, of a bright wine-red, polished, with black
hairs along the margin, and Indian-purple warts near the upper edge,
greenish towards the base and along the lower edge. The pouch-shaped lip
is nearly as long as the petals, purplish red with a coppery tinge,
glossy, veined with green at the sides and back. The flowers are
produced during January and February, a season when they are much in
request for decorative purposes. The Cypripediums are very useful for
furnishing a supply of cut flowers, as they will keep fresh for several
weeks in water, and will last for at least six weeks on the plant.

These interesting plants are of easy cultivation, and occupy but little
space, hence they may be accommodated in every small collection, and may
be grown without much expense. The species and varieties forming the
_barbatum_ group, to which this plant belongs, all require similar
treatment. They may be grown either in the Cattleya or East India house,
and are best cultivated in pots. Some of our Orchid-growers prefer to
plant them in sphagnum moss, others in peat; for ourselves, we prefer to
use good fibrous peat, ample drainage being provided. We have seen them
thrive well in fibrous loam. The plants must be kept above the rim of
the pot, as they root freely over the surface of the rough material.
Since they have no fleshy bulbs to support them, and their growth is
continuous almost throughout the year, they require to be liberally
supplied with water at the roots; for this reason the pots must be well
drained.

Insects require to be constantly searched for. The scale sometimes
appears upon the plants, but may easily be subjugated by sponging the
surface with clean water. Their greatest enemy, however, is the red
thrips, which must be hunted up and destroyed if the health of the
plants is to be maintained, but it may be easily kept under if promptly,
perseveringly, and vigorously attacked.


Dendrobium macrophyllum.—We have received two splendid spikes of this
magnificent Dendrobe, with flowers of an unusually fine colour, from a
well grown specimen, such as we might expect from so experienced a
grower as Mr. Penny, of the Royal Gardens, Sandringham, who has been one
of the most successful exhibitors of specimen Orchids at our London
shows, where he has, with the large collections staged by him, carried
off nearly all the leading prizes. We hope at some future period to be
able to figure this fine Dendrobium, the sepals and petals of which are
of a rose-magenta colour, and the lip of the same colour, with a
purplish crimson throat. We received with the Dendrobe a fine spike of
the white-lipped form of _Odontoglossum Hallii_ in grand condition, the
sepals and petals being of a very bright golden yellow with rich
markings of a brownish crimson colour. This variety forms a splendid
contrast with the white-flowered _O. Alexandræ_ and _O. Pescatorei_, of
which kinds there is a fine collection at Sandringham. The Prince of
Wales is a great admirer of these as well as of other good Orchids.—B.
S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 37.
    CYPRIPEDIUM CHLORONEURUM.]




                       CYPRIPEDIUM CHLORONEURUM.
                              [Plate 37.]
                             Garden Hybrid.


  Epiphytal. Acaulescent. _Leaves_ radical, distichous, coriaceous,
  oblong acute, closely tessellated with dark hieroglyphic markings on a
  light green ground, the under surface reddish purple. _Scapes_
  solitary in the central leaf-axils, pubescent, reddish purple,
  one-flowered, with a very short ovate bract. _Flowers_ large, with
  expanded petals, rather attractive in colour; _dorsal sepal_ broadly
  ovate, bright yellow-green with white margin, and a narrow purple
  central stripe, on each side of which are about four strongly marked
  dark green longitudinal veins, connected by finer transverse veins;
  _lateral (connate) sepals_ small; _petals_ oblong, broader upwards,
  two and a half inches long, and three-fourths of an inch wide, with
  green longitudinal veins, and a dark purple central line, on one side
  of which (the upper half) they are washed with wine-purple, and have a
  yellowish buff margin, and a few black warts near the base, where they
  are ciliated; on the other (lower) half very slightly tinted with
  purple, the cross veins more apparent, and the margin green; _lip_
  rather large, shortly pouch-shaped, heavily stained with wine-purple,
  and freely marked with bold reticulations of a darker purple, the
  upper angles yellowish at the margins. _Staminode_ transversely
  reniform, pale green, with dark green feathery markings in front.

  Cypripedium chloroneurum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’
  Chronicle_, N.S., xiv., 525.


This is one of the most distinct of the new hybrid Lady’s Slippers that
have been recently introduced to the notice of Orchid-growers; it will
also be appreciated as one of the most useful, being of a neat
free-growing and abundant-blooming habit of growth. The Cypripediums are
everybody’s plants, that is to say, any one who has a place adapted for
their cultivation can manage them without difficulty. Many growers make
them their especial care and study, procuring every species and variety
that can be obtained, and thus forming a very interesting and diverse
group.

Our present subject was raised by Robert Warner, Esq., in whose
collection at Broomfield it has been blooming very abundantly, and it
was from Mr. Warner’s plant that our drawing was taken. The variety
resembles the one figured on plate 36 in being of free-blooming habit,
and also in being very attractive in regard to its foliage as well as
its flowers. Many hybrid Cypripediums have been raised in this country
of late years by the Messrs. Veitch and Sons, and also by other growers.
Some of these have proved to be very beautiful and effective subjects,
and no doubt there are others coming forward that have not yet bloomed.
Many splendid novelties may yet be gained by crossing those kinds that
have flowers of distinct forms and colours, and, as many of the
varieties bloom simultaneously, the hybridiser will find abundant
opportunities for carrying out his plans.

These plants appear to be easily raised from seeds, and to reach the
flowering stage sooner than most other seedling Orchids.

Some of the Cypripediums thrive well in a cool house, and by fertilising
these with the best of the stove species, a new set of cool-house forms
would probably be obtained. Such a result would be one of considerable
importance to Orchidists, as no doubt, if varieties of a different
character to those we already possess could be obtained, some of our
enthusiastic growers would take up their cultivation in good earnest. At
present the majority of the Lady’s Slippers require a warm house.

_Cypripedium chloroneurum_ is a dwarf compact-habited plant, with
evergreen foliage about six inches in length, beautifully variegated
with closely chequered markings of dark and light green. The flowers are
produced in January and February, and continue on for several weeks. The
colours are distinct and attractive, the broad flat dorsal sepal being
of a bright lively pale green striped with darker green nerves and
bordered with white, the petals suffused with purple on the upper half
and marked with black marginal warts, and the purplish lip freely
ornamented with bold dark purple reticulations, altogether presenting a
remarkably effective appearance.

This novel hybrid grows freely when potted in rough fibrous peat with
good drainage. When in vigorous growth it requires a liberal supply of
water at the roots. Propagation is accomplished by dividing the plants
after they have finished blooming and are ready to start into fresh
growth; they can then be divided with safety by cutting off a back
growth with a leading shoot in front of it, but care must be taken in
cutting that the remaining portion of the plant is provided with an eye
so placed as to break and form a new growth. When this young growth has
been made, the divided plant may be shaken out from the old soil and
potted. The offshoots should be placed in small pots until the following
year, when, if they have made good growth, they may require to be
repotted. They must be kept moist and in a plump condition, as they have
only slender resources of their own to rely upon, but they root freely.
As the plants get established they will require larger supplies of
water, for which reason good drainage must be secured.


Aërides Leeanum.—This novelty has bloomed in the collection of G. W. L.
Schofield, Esq., of New Hall, Hey, Rawtenstall, near Manchester,
producing four flower-spikes. It is a beautiful object, its spikes of
richly-coloured rosy pink blossoms hanging gracefully from the plant. It
is very distinct from any other species of _Aërides_, and will doubtless
become a great favourite. One of its great recommendations is that it
blooms in the winter, which is not the case with the generality of these
plants, their usual flowering season being during the spring and summer
months. _A. Leeanum_ is a small growing plant, but produces its spikes
of blossoms very freely; and requiring, as it does, but a limited space
for its accommodation, it will be a most useful introduction for amateur
cultivators.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 38.
    DENDROBIUM BIGIBBUM.]




                          DENDROBIUM BIGIBBUM.
                              [Plate 38.]
                Native of Tropical North-east Australia.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ long, slender, erect, fusiform, one to two
  feet in length, closely invested between the nodes with dry light
  brown sheaths, the older ones swollen at the very base. _Leaves_
  oblong-lanceolate, sub-acuminate, five ribbed, of a deep green colour,
  and a somewhat coriaceous texture, a few only (five or six) being
  developed towards the extremities of the stems. _Racemes_ erect or
  curving, six to twelve flowered, nearly a foot in length, usually
  produced from the upper nodes of the old leafless stems, but sometimes
  from the apex of the younger leafy stems. _Flowers_ large, showy, rich
  rosy purple; _sepals_ oblong acute, flat, of a rich purplish magenta,
  the lateral ones united at the base into a short blunt spur below the
  setting on of the lip, above which spur is a gibbosity, occasioned by
  a similar swelling at the base of the lip (whence comes the specific
  name _bigibbum_); _petals_ large, roundish, spreading, recurved, of
  the same colour as the sepals; _lip_ three-lobed, the lateral lobes
  incurved, the retuse middle lobe somewhat reflexed, rich
  crimson-purple veined with darker purple, the base decurrent and
  gibbose, and the disk with three white papillose crests. _Columns_
  compressed, grooved, the back united with the sepal.

  Dendrobium bigibbum, _Lindley_, in _Paxton’s Flower Garden_, iii, 25,
  fig. 245; _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 4898; _Walpers’ Annales
  Botanices Systematicæ_, vi., 302; _Warner_, _Select Orchidaceous
  Plants_, 2 ser. t. 8; _Van Houtte_, _Flore des Serres_, xi., t. 1143;
  _Bateman_, _Second Century of Orchidaceous Plants_, t. 169;
  _Williams_, _Orchid Growers’ Manual_, 5 ed., 165.


This plant belongs to one of the most noble and popular, one of the most
showy and beautiful genera of the whole family of Orchids, and one among
the flowers of which nearly every colour occurs—bright yellow, pure
white, rich crimson, bright purple, soft mauve, rich orange, nankeen,
and many others being found among the many and various habited species
of Dendrobes.

_Dendrobium bigibbum_, the subject of our plate, is a species of a
remarkably beautiful and showy character, which, until within the last
few years, has been somewhat rare. In 1876, however, we received a large
consignment from our collector, Mr. Goldie, who was then on his way to
New Guinea, and who met with it growing on an island in Torres Straits,
it having hitherto, we believe, been found only on the mainland of
Australia. These plants were very fine, some of the specimens being of
enormous dimensions, with stems quite two feet long, and from one and
a-half to two inches in circumference. The specimens from which our
figure of one of the most charming forms of this species which we have
yet seen, was prepared, were kindly sent to us from the fine collection
of the Marquess of Lothian, at Newbattle Abbey. Dalkeith, where it
bloomed in September last in full beauty, amongst many other notable
Orchids which are well cultivated by the intelligent gardener, Mr.
Priest, who takes great delight in the careful management of his plants.

This species of _Dendrobium_ is partially deciduous, the fully ripened
stems sometimes losing the whole of their foliage, while the young
growths retain their leaves until the following year. It grows from one
to two feet in height, and produces its racemes of flowers sometimes
from the top of the young growths, and sometimes from the old stems, in
the latter case often bearing many spikes on the same stem. The flowers
are of a rich rosy purple, and last in perfection for a considerable
period. It is a most useful subject for associating with a button-hole
bouquet, single flowers being shown off to great advantage by placing a
light-looking fern frond behind them. The racemes of flowers last a long
time after being cut if placed in water, and are most useful in all
floral decorations. By growing several plants, successional blooms may
be had at different periods.

This Tropical Australian species is best grown in a warm house, as the
plants require a good amount of heat—70° to 80° while growing—and plenty
of light, but the burning rays of the sun must be kept from them. They
thrive best when planted in pans or baskets amongst rough fibrous peat
and sphagnum moss, and suspended from the roof of the Orchid house.
During the summer season they require a liberal supply of water, but in
winter should have only sufficient to keep the stems plump. The plant
will also succeed on blocks of wood, but, if grown in this way, it will
in hot weather need watering twice a day, and once a day at other times.
Some cultivators have been unsuccessful with this species, but we have
found it to thrive well in a house where Crotons, Dipladenias,
Stephanotis, etc., are grown; the Dendrobes seem to enjoy the moisture
transmitted to them by the stove plants which are generally syringed in
warm weather, and the dew arising from this operation appears to suit
the Orchid. The syringe is also useful in subduing the red spider, which
will sometimes attack the young growth. Insects often infest those kinds
of _Dendrobium_ that are grown in strong heat, but they must by this and
other means be kept under.

Such treatment suits almost all the popular Dendrobes, namely, _D.
Devonianum_, _D. Wardianum superbum_, _D. chrysanthum_, _D. superbum
(macrophyllum)_, _D. crassinode_, etc.; and the plants are found to be
much stronger by reason of hanging near the glass well exposed to light,
in which position they can be syringed on warm days—this moistening not
only invigorating their growth, but being also a means of keeping
insects under control.

    [Illustration:  PL. 39.
    PHALÆNOPSIS STUARTIANA NOBILIS.]




                    PHALÆNOPSIS STUARTIANA NOBILIS.
                              [Plate 39.]
                          Native of the East.


  Epiphytal. Acaulescent, the plants clinging to their supports by stout
  flattened roots. _Leaves_ coriaceous, distichous, ligulate-oblong,
  acute, channelled, equitant at the base, the upper surface marbled
  with transverse grey blotches which disappear with age, the under
  surface purplish red, similar in size to those of _Phalænopsis
  Schilleriana_. _Scape_ radical, bearing a many-flowered (120 or more)
  branching panicle of very handsomely and peculiarly spotted blossoms.
  _Flowers_ nearly three inches across, expanded, cream-coloured at
  first, becoming white; _sepals_ oblong, or ovate-oblong, about an inch
  in length, the dorsal one white, the lateral ones white along the
  upper side, the lower side being yellow thickly spotted with
  cinnamon-red; _petals_ much broader, narrowed near the base, white;
  _lip_ three-lobed, with a four-horned yellow callosity at its base,
  the lateral lobes oblong, rounded, the middle lobe oval, with an
  anchor-like extremity, the apex terminating in a pair of narrow
  recurved laciniæ, all the lobes yellow at the base, white upwards and
  handsomely spotted with rich cinnamon-red. _Column_ clavate, white.

  Phalænopsis Stuartiana, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S. xvi., 748, 753, fig. 149; Moore, _Florist and Pomologist_, 1882,
  49, t. 559.

  _Var._ NOBILIS; flowers larger in all their parts, marked with fewer
  and larger spots; front lobe of the lip rhombic.

  Phalænopsis Stuartiana _var._ NOBILIS, _Reichenbach fil._, in
  _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S. xvi., 748.


There can be no doubt that the species of _Phalænopsis_ rank amongst our
finest Orchids, on account of the purity and soft tinting of their
blossoms and the profusion in which they are produced. Unfortunately, at
present, we only possess a limited number of them. During the last few
years, indeed, many new kinds, which are giving a fresh interest to the
genus, have been introduced by our collectors; and, although it is
barely possible that any new introduction should surpass the old
species, yet it is gratifying to know that there are yet to be found
distinct and novel kinds of great beauty. _P. Stuartiana_, which we now
bring under the notice of our readers, is a very fine and well-marked
species, recently imported from the East by Messrs. Low & Co., of Upper
Clapton, and named by Professor Reichenbach in honour of Mr. Stuart Low,
who is one of the largest importers of this class of Orchids. Our plate,
which represents the variety called _P. Stuartiana nobilis_, was
sketched from a plant now in the fine collection of William Lee, Esq.,
of Downside, Leatherhead, who purchased it when in full beauty from the
Messrs. Low, and we have to thank Mr. Lee for his kindness in allowing
the drawing to be made. It is to be hoped that collectors may find more
of it in its native country, although we believe it to be very rare,
and, like many other recent discoveries to be probably a natural hybrid
produced by insect fertilisation. We have no doubt that there are yet
many fine forms of _Phalænopsis_; and if we could but obtain the scarlet
one, which some years ago was reported to have been seen by a collector
who was not able to bring it home, what a grand acquisition that would
be!

_Phalænopsis Stuartiana nobilis_ resembles _P. Schilleriana_ in the
young growth, its newly developed leaves being of the same shape and
colour and similarly spotted, but the older leaves assume more of the
character of _P. amabilis_; while the flowers, instead of being
mauve-coloured, are pure white, with the inferior halves of the lateral
sepals yellow and boldly spotted with cinnamon-red, as also is a portion
of the lip, the side lobes of which bear smaller and more closely set
spots. We have little doubt that this plant is a wild hybrid between _P.
Schilleriana_ and _P. amabilis_, as though the young leaves come
spotted, they afterwards change to the colour of those of _P. amabilis_,
as already described.

This plant requires the same treatment as _P. Schilleriana_, and is best
grown among sphagnum moss in baskets suspended from the roof, care being
taken to give it a good supply of water during the growing season. It
should have the heat of the East India house, and should at all times be
kept moist at the roots, for if allowed to become dry, it will loose its
lower leaves. If the plants are in a healthy and free-growing condition,
flowering does not injure them; but, if at all sickly, they should not
be allowed to blossom until they regain strength and vigour, as they are
naturally free-flowering plants, and under such circumstances might
bloom themselves to death. The moss about their roots must be sweet and
in a living state; when it becomes decayed it should be removed, the
roots washed, and the plant replaced in clean live moss with fresh free
drainage, so that the water, of which a considerable quantity is
required, may never become stagnant. Shading is an important element in
the successful cultivation of these plants; therefore the sun, when at
its full power in summer, must never be allowed to shine upon them, but
in winter a little sun-heat is beneficial, and they then require all the
light which it is possible to give them. Neither drip, nor water in any
other form, must be suffered to reach the hearts of the plants, as it
causes them to rot.

Insects are troublesome at times. The thrips, if allowed to multiply,
will greatly disfigure the plants, causing damage by depriving them of
the juices which should go to sustain their vigour. When free from such
pests, and in a healthy condition, the leaves of the Phalænopsids have a
pleasing appearance; and, if they are well looked after, it will not be
difficult to keep them clean, the more especially as being of large
size, they can be readily operated upon.

    [Illustration:  PL. 40.
    ODONTGLOSSUM KRAMERII.]




                         ODONTOGLOSSUM KRAMERI.
                              [Plate 40.]
                         Native of Costa Rica.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ nearly orbicular, much compressed, ancipitous
  or sharply two-edged, one and a-half inch in diameter, pale green.
  _Leaves_ solitary, oblong-lanceolate, acute, keeled, six to eight
  inches long, one and a-half to two inches broad, light green, with a
  smooth even surface. _Scapes_ radical, four to six inches long,
  shorter than the leaves, three to five flowered, drooping or
  ascending, flexuous, pale green, with small appressed bracts and
  longish peduncles. _Flowers_ one and a-half inch or more across, and
  delicately coloured; _sepals_ oblong acute, rosy lilac with a white
  margin; _petals_ about equalling the sepals in size, and similar to
  them in form and colour; _lip_ with a short stout neck, deeply
  hollowed in front, with two erect calli, the lateral lobes semi-ovate,
  narrow, deflexed, the much larger middle lobe three-fourths of an inch
  broad, roundish reniform, emarginate, bearing at the base a pair of
  erect lamellæ, the unguis or neck yellow spotted with red, the front
  lobe deep rosy lilac, marked near its base with two semi-circular
  bands of white and purplish rose. _Column_ short, thick, white in
  front.

  Odontoglossum Krameri, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  1868, 98, with woodcut; _Hooker fil._, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5778;
  _Bateman_, _Monograph of Odontoglossum_, t. 24; _Williams_, _Orchid
  Growers’ Manual_, 5 ed., 236; _Floral Magazine_, t. 406 (as O.
  Kremeri.)


This is a most charming small-growing Orchid, with remarkably pretty
delicately coloured flowers. It is at the present time very rare in
collections, and, in fact, had become almost lost to cultivation, but
fortunately during the last year a small number of plants was imported
into this country and distributed. Our drawing was made from a plant
which formed part of this importation, and which produced its chastely
coloured blossoms in the Victoria Nursery. Many years ago we remember to
have seen a fine lot imported by the late George Ure Skinner, Esq., but
since then it has until last year disappeared from our notice. We are,
however, glad to see it again making its appearance in our
Orchid-houses; for, as will be seen by reference to our illustration, it
is a plant of a most distinct and pleasing character, and will be a real
acquisition to the group of Odontoglots, of which numerous highly
popular species are at present in cultivation.

_Odontoglossum Krameri_ is a plant of compact-growing habit, with small
flattened light green pseudobulbs, each producing from the top a
solitary leaf of a pale green colour. The plant generally attains about
ten inches in height. The flower spikes or peduncles are freely produced
from the base of the pseudobulbs after they have completed their growth,
several flowers being produced on each peduncle. The sepals and petals
are of a rosy lilac colour, margined with white; the lip is also rosy
lilac, but of a darker shade, flushed with yellow and marked and spotted
with purple at the neck, and having two semi-circular bands of dark
purplish rose and white near the base. The plants continue in bloom for
several weeks.

We have found this species to thrive well in the Cattleya house, planted
in small pans or pots with good peat and sphagnum moss. It might
possibly do in a cooler structure, but we have as yet only cultivated it
in the Cattleya house, and this treatment has been found to suit it. It
requires to be kept moist during the growing season, but when at rest
should have only just sufficient water to keep it in a plump condition.
The plant possesses one great advantage—that of blooming during the
autumn months, when such flowers are so much in request. It has also
another good quality—that of occupying but a small space, so that any
cultivator who has a spare niche in his Orchid house can grow it without
any inconvenience.


Cattleya Trianæ.—R. B. Dodgson, Esq., of Blackburn, has kindly sent us a
wonderfully fine series of flowers of the different varieties of _C.
Trianæ_, including some of the grandest that have yet come under our
notice. Of two or three of these our Artist is preparing plates, which
will be issued in due course in the _Orchid Album_. The variety named
_C. Trianæ Dodgsoni_ bears most beautiful flowers, which are quite
distinct from all that we have previously seen, the sepals and petals
being large, and of a pure white, while the lip is of a rich magenta
colour, with the throat rich orange, white in the upper part. _C. Trianæ
Osmani_ is also a very fine variety, the flowers being rich in colour,
the sepals and petals rosy pink, and the lip large, of a bright magenta
colour; it is in fact altogether a wonderfully fine flower. There were
several other varieties sent, including one which we have selected as
the original _C. Trianæ_; this we shall first bring under the notice of
our readers, and the other two will follow.—B. S. W.


Mr. Dorman’s Orchids.—When visiting this grand collection last month
(March) we noticed the rare _Epidendrum Wallisii_ in flower. Mr.
Coningsby, the gardener, informed us that the flowers on this plant had
been open since November, and they still looked fresh. _Lælia flava_ was
also good. _Galeandra Devoniana_, a plant one seldom sees in bloom, was
quite at home here, flowering and growing luxuriantly. _Lycaste Skinneri
alba_, with its pure white flowers looked very charming; this was an
extra fine variety, with flowers as large as any we remember to have
seen. In addition to these there were many fine things in flower, which
space will not permit us to mention. Mr. Dorman’s Orchids are looking
remarkably well, and are well cared for, both employer and gardener
being enthusiastically fond of them.—H. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 41.
    ANGRÆCUM EBURNEUM.]




                           ANGRÆCUM EBURNEUM.
                              [Plate 41.]
                   Native of Madagascar and Bourbon.


  Epiphytal. _Stem_ erect, leafy, producing roots from the lower part
  and from between the bases of the lower leaves. _Leaves_ distichous,
  ligulate, very oblique at the apex, coriaceous, of a shining green
  colour, striated, about two inches broad, carinate below and
  overlapping each other at the base. _Peduncles_ axillary, furnished
  with dark sheathing scales, and bearing an erect spike of numerous
  large flowers of peculiar form and appearance, all pointing in one
  direction and placed alternately back to back in a distichous or
  two-ranked manner. _Flowers_ of a thick fleshy texture, green, with a
  broad conspicuous white lip; _sepals_ and _petals_ lanceolate, pale
  green, the dorsal sepal and the petals reflexed, the lateral sepals
  patent; _lip_ large, broadly cordate, cuspidate, ivory white, the
  centre concave, and bearing a cleft acuminated ridge; _spur_ tapering,
  considerably longer than and parallel with the dorsal sepal, dark
  green. _Column_ short, thick, greenish white.

  Angræcum eburneum, _Du Petit-Thouars_, _Orchidées des Iles Australes
  d’Afrique_, t. 65; _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, t. 1522; _Hooker_,
  _Botanical Magazine_, t. 4761; _Paxton’s Magazine of Botany_, xvi.,
  90, with woodcut; _Bateman_, _2nd Century of Orchidaceous Plants_, t.
  111; _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, 1873, 216, fig. 46; _Williams_, _Orchid
  Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 88, with woodcut.

  Angræcum superbum, _Du Petit-Thouars_, _Orchidées_, tt. 62-4.

  Limodorum eburneum, _Bory_, _Voyage_, i., 359; t. 19.


A grand Orchid which was first introduced to this country from
Madagascar by the Horticultural Society of London, through their
collector, Mr. Forbes, in the third decade of the present century, that
is, more than fifty years since. It is, without doubt, one of the finest
of the species, and when well grown forms a noble plant, its long spikes
of attractive flowers, in company with its bold and characteristic
foliage and its majestic habit of growth, imparting to it an aspect of
dignity which no one can fail to recognise. Indeed, the magnificent
appearance it has when placed on the central stage of the East India
house is quite sufficient to win for it the favour of Orchid fanciers.

Wherever space can be given to it, it should always be grown, as it
blooms during the winter months and continues in perfection for many
weeks longer than any other of its family that has come under our
notice. Our drawing was taken from a very fine specimen, producing three
well developed spikes, in the collection of D. B. Crawshay, Esq.,
Rosefield, Sevenoaks, Kent, who is a great lover of Orchids, and is
forming a nice collection of them.

_Angræcum eburneum_ is, as we have before noted, from Madagascar, and
consequently requires the heat of the East India house. It is of
comparatively easy cultivation. The strap-shaped leaves grow to about
eighteen inches in length, and are of a pleasant glossy, light green
colour; the flower spikes are produced from the leaf axils on each side
of the stem, and extend to the length of eighteen inches, bearing many
flowers of which the broad cordate lip is of a conspicuous ivory white.
The plants will sometimes produce as many as four spikes at one time.
The blooming period is in December, January, and February.

There is in cultivation another variety of _Angræcum eburneum_, called
_virens_, but is not nearly so handsome and effective a plant as the
type, its flowers being of a greenish white, but the spike has a
somewhat more graceful contour, and the foliage is of a dark green
colour, so that it also is worth cultivating where room can be found for
its accommodation.

The Angræcums form a very interesting genus in the great Orchid family;
and although amongst those that have bloomed in this country there are
not many that we consider to be worth growing as ornamental plants, yet
some, on the other hand, are very beautiful, and these we hope to be
able to figure in due course. There have been several new introductions
of late, and no doubt there are many yet to be acquired. We are glad to
notice that Sir Trevor Lawrence is getting up a collection of all the
best kinds, but it is found that some of them are difficult to obtain,
and they are none of them so readily imported alive as many other
Orchids are. They are mostly found growing on trees in their native
country, different species being met with on the same trees. It was very
interesting to hear the late Rev. W. Ellis talk of these plants, of
which many years ago he brought home living specimens of some of the
most beautiful of the species, such as _Angræcum sesquipedale_, _A.
Ellisii_, and others.

_Angræcum eburneum_ is best cultivated in a pot as it is a large growing
plant, and produces thick fleshy roots. We find sphagnum moss to suit it
well, but it must have good drainage as it requires a liberal supply of
water during the summer months, for if it be allowed to shrivel the
bottom leaves wither and decay; in the winter, on the other hand, it
should have merely sufficient to keep the moss damp and the plant in a
plump condition. It requires the same general treatment as the large
growing Vandas, such as _Vanda suavis_, _V. tricolor_, and others. The
plants are not subject to the attacks of insects, their thick fleshy
leaves appearing to have no attraction for these pests.


Cattleya Trianæ.—We have received from E. Wright, Esq., Gravelly Hill,
Birmingham, a very fine form of this splendid _Cattleya_; the flowers
were six inches in diameter, the sepals and petals broad and of a rosy
pink colour, the lip of a rich magenta and beautifully fringed, having
the throat bright orange colour and the upper part rose-pink. It is
altogether a desirable and charming flower. The varieties of this
species are very useful, as they bloom in winter, when there are but few
other Cattleyas in flower.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 42.
    DENDROBIUM MACROPHYLLUM.]




                  DENDROBIUM SUPERBUM [MACROPHYLLUM].
                              [Plate 42.]
                   Native of the Philippine Islands.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ (pseudobulbs) stout, cylindrical, striated, the
  nodes of the flowering ones marked by the persistent scarious
  sheathing bases of the fallen leaves, drooping, and often attaining
  considerable length. _Leaves_ alternate elliptic-oblong, acute or
  obtuse, subcordate at the base, nervose, thin in texture, two-ribbed.
  _Flowers_ very numerous, usually in pairs from the joints of the
  stems, which form long floral wreaths; _sepals_ lanceolate, plane, the
  lateral ones produced at the base, of a deep rich purplish magenta,
  varying in intensity in different forms; _petals_ broadly
  oblong-ovate, somewhat undulated, of the same colour as the sepals;
  _lip_ pubescent, cordate-ovate, acuminate, convolute at the base, so
  that with the extended front lobe it assumes something of the shape of
  an oblique-mouthed funnel, the margin denticulate, the basal portion
  of an intense sanguineous purple, appearing like two deep blotches;
  the front lobe purplish magenta, marked with longitudinal ribs,
  connected with finer transverse veins of a deeper purple, and having a
  transverse three-lobed callosity. _Column_ short, included.

  Dendrobium superbum, _Reichenbach fil._ _MSS._; _Id._, _Walpers’
  Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, vi., 282; _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s
  Manual_, 5 ed., 180.

  Dendrobium macrophyllum, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, 1839, misc.
  46; 1844, misc. 62; _Id._ _Sertum Orchidaceum_, t. 35; _Pescatorea_,
  t. 40; _Paxton’s Magazine of Botany_, viii., 97.

  Dendrobium macranthum, _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 3970;
  _Planchon_ in _Flore des Serres_, viii, t. 757.


This is a magnificent Orchid, especially in the case of its finer
varieties, whether superior on the score of size or colouration. It was
first bloomed by the Messrs. Loddiges in 1839, in their wonderful plant
emporium at Hackney, having been introduced by them from the Philippine
Islands. A grand variety called _giganteum_, having flowers of immense
size, is figured in Mr. R. Warner’s _Select Orchidaceous Plants_ (1
ser., t. 26); and in respect to colour, the form of which we now give an
illustration, is one of the richest and most effective we have yet seen.
The materials from which our figure was prepared were obligingly sent to
us by Mr. C. Penny, gardener to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, at
Sandringham. It will be at once seen that the specimen in question was a
well-grown example, and we understand that the plant yielded two
similarly well furnished wreaths, bearing as many as forty blossoms.
Besides this there are many other Orchids of superior merit to be seen
in the collection at Sandringham gardens, these plants, the magnates of
the vegetable world, being highly appreciated both by the Prince and the
Princess of Wales.

The Dendrobiums are among the most beautiful and charming of our Indian
Orchids, many of the species being of a most graceful habit of growth,
and by their brightly coloured flowers imparting a remarkably
picturesque character to our Orchid houses. Some of them, moreover, have
delicately fragrant blossoms. In very many cases they bloom most
profusely, and with their long pendent stems look well suspended from
the roof of the house. Our present subject belongs to this latter class,
and is one of the most showy and beautiful of the species.

_Dendrobium superbum_, which is more commonly known in gardens as
_Dendrobium macrophyllum_, is a deciduous plant, losing its foliage just
as it begins to blossom. It is a noble object when growing, producing
stems from two to three feet long, furnished along each side with
flowers growing in pairs; these flowers are four inches across, with
sepals and petals of a lively magenta-rose, and a lip similar in colour,
but with a purplish crimson throat. It blooms during February and March,
the individual blossoms lasting about a fortnight in beauty. It thrives
best when grown in a basket, and suspended from the roof. If hung up
when in blossom, amongst the foliage of the other plants, the flowers
are shown off to greater advantage, as it naturally blooms without
foliage. It grows well in the East India Orchid house, and requires a
good amount of heat and moisture during its growing season. After growth
is completed it will do well in the Cattleya house during the dormant
period, and when it begins to show its flower buds a little water may be
given to induce the buds to swell and develop fine flowers. When the
flowering season is over it may, if required, be placed in fresh
sphagnum moss. It is a free growing plant, and thrives best suspended
near the glass in the full light, but shaded from the burning sun. It
is, indeed, absolutely necessary to give it all the light possible; and,
in summer, a slight syringing when the house is closed will tend to keep
the red spider and thrips in check.


Dendrobium Hillii.—There is in the collection of R. Wyatt, Esq., Lake
House, Cheltenham, a very fine specimen of this cool Orchid, which has
been bearing numerous spikes of blossom, some of the spikes being as
much as twenty inches in length. The specimen was a most beautiful
object, with its long racemes of creamy white blossoms, which proceed
from the apices of its thick fleshy pseudobulbs; it has, moreover, dark
green foliage. This plant was growing in the conservatory, and had
continued in bloom for about two months, so that it is a most useful
subject for winter decoration. It is a very old Orchid, but is worth
cultivating, especially as it will grow in a conservatory or in any cool
house. There was also in the same collection a very fine variety of
_Cypripedium villosum_, one of the best we have seen, the flowers being
wonderfully bright in colour, and of large size. Of _Lycaste Skinneri_
there was a well-grown plant, with very fine flowers, the sepals and
petals being broad and pure white, and the front portion of the lip
bright magenta, with the throat white.

    [Illustration:  PL. 43.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM ALEXANDRÆ FLAVEOLUM.]




                   ODONTOGLOSSUM ALEXANDRÆ FLAVEOLUM.
                              [Plate 43.]
                         Native of New Grenada.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ ovate, compressed, one or two leaved.
  _Leaves_ elongate, oblong-lanceolate, acute, of a bright green colour.
  _Scape_ radical, supporting a many-flowered raceme (or panicle) of
  showy flowers, each subtended by a small ovate-oblong acute bract.
  _Flowers_ large, differing from other known forms of the species by
  their yellow colour, about three inches across; _sepals_
  ovate-lanceolate, acute, slightly wavy at the edges, pale
  sulphur-yellow; _petals_ ovate, much undulated at the margins and
  irregularly toothed, of the same pale yellow as the sepals; _lip_
  oblong, the apex truncately rounded and cuspidate, the margins
  undulated and fimbriated, and the basal angles rounded and produced,
  all of a bright yellow colour, marked near the centre with about three
  conspicuous round reddish brown spots, and at the base with fine
  radiating lines of the same colour, in front of which are two
  divergent bars or crests. _Column_ arcuate, club-shaped, pale yellow
  behind, dull brown on the inner face, and furnished with the usual
  toothed wings at the edge.

  Odontoglossum Alexandræ flaveolum, _supra_.

  Odontoglossum crispum flaveolum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’
  Chronicle_, N.S. xiii., 41, 232.


This very distinct variety is one which will become very useful in the
decoration of our cool Orchid houses, for as the white-flowered
varieties of _Odontoglossum Alexandræ_ and other species are now so
numerous, that now before us, being yellow, will produce a good
contrast, which we must have in order to make a pleasing display. Our
drawing was taken from a fine example in the collection of G. Hardy,
Esq., Pickering Lodge, Timperley, near Manchester. We may add that Mr.
Hardy’s is one of the largest and best collections in the North of
England, since he spares neither trouble nor expense in procuring the
best varieties that can be obtained. As a proof of this we may refer to
the recent Manchester Whitsuntide flower shows, where Orchids are one of
the prominent features, and where Mr. Hardy’s collection has frequently
taken high honours.

_Odontoglossum Alexandræ flaveolum_ is a compact free-growing plant,
like _O. Alexandræ_ itself, and produces fine drooping flower spikes
which we have seen bearing fifteen expanded bright creamy yellow
flowers, these continuing in beauty for several weeks. This variety is
all the more useful because of its blooming in the winter months when so
many of our white Odontoglots are also in flower. The plant requires the
same treatment as others of its class. It was found growing on the
branches of trees intermixed with _Odontoglossum Alexandræ_, and no
doubt, as is probably the case with others of the so-called new
varieties, it has originated by intercrossing with some allied species,
which may have been growing near to it, and has been flowering at the
same time. We hope shortly to give an illustration of the original or
typical form of _O. Alexandræ_.

The best material in which to grow the Odontoglots is fibrous peat; they
must have good drainage because they want plenty of water during the
growing season, in fact the material should always be kept moist. The
plants must never be over-potted, but just sufficient root room must be
permitted them to secure healthy progression; over-potting, indeed,
often becomes dangerous. We find that live sphagnum moss placed on the
top of the peat is a great help in their cultivation, as it holds water,
and there is always some degree of moisture arising from it; moreover,
when it is kept in a healthy growing state it has a very neat and
pleasing appearance.


Odontoglossums at Trentham.—The _régime_ adopted at Trentham for growing
Cool Orchids, such as Odontoglots, is to give them water most profusely,
the cold rain-water which falls from the roof being used summer and
winter, and to allow fresh air to circulate freely amongst them at all
times, night and day, except in very severe weather. The natural water
at Trentham, as does any other water containing lime, will, after a
time, kill the Sphagnum used for potting purposes, and this is most
inimical to the plants, which never thrive so well as when the Sphagnum
keeps fresh and in a growing state. In respect to the Sphagnum Moss used
for Orchid growing, it does not appear to be generally known that
amongst the different species the best for potting Odontoglots and
similar plants is a dense-growing compact kind, whose very compactness
gives it a sponge-like consistency, and enables it to suck up and retain
water freely. This is what the Odontoglots like.—T. M.


Odontoglossum Roezlii.—A fine example of this showy Orchid has reached
us from D. Todd, Esq., Eastwood Park, near Glasgow. The spike was a
particularly fine one, bearing well-developed flowers, of which the
sepals and petals were white, the lower part of the latter being of a
dark magenta, and the lip white, coloured with lines of crimson on the
disk. Mr. Todd grows these plants remarkably well, and deserves great
credit for his felicitous treatment of them, as few persons are so
successful in their cultivation. There is a very good collection of
Orchids forming at this place, Mr. Todd being an admirer of good kinds.
At the Glasgow exhibitions his fine collection forms one of the greatest
attractions of the show.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 44.
    LÆLIA ANCEPS DAWSONII.]




                         LÆLIA ANCEPS DAWSONI.
                              [Plate 44.]
                      Native of Juquila in Mexico.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ oblong-ovate, four to five inches long,
  compressed and two-edged, with prominent angles on the flattened sides
  so as to render them tetraquetrous, clothed with large membranaceous
  scales. _Leaves_ one or two from each pseudobulb, oblong-lanceolate
  acute, coriaceous, smooth and glossy on the surface, of a rich deep
  green colour. _Scape_ rising from between the leaves at the apex of
  the pseudobulb, two to three feet long, ancipitous, clothed with
  carinate bracts, and bearing about three large and charmingly
  beautiful blossoms. _Flowers_ large, measuring about four and a-half
  inches across; _sepals_ lanceolate, acuminate, white; _petals_ ovate,
  acuminate, white; _lip_ prominent, three-lobed: the lateral lobes
  convolute over the column, white at the margin, stained with rosy
  purple exteriorly, and marked with numerous bright purple branched
  lines within the closed portion, where there is also a yellow ridge
  lined with purple which passes out into the base of the front lobe in
  the form of three yellow crests; the front lobe oblong acute, recurved
  at the tip, the base white, the rest of the lobe (about three-fourths
  of its surface) of a deep rich magenta-purple, evenly but narrowly
  bordered with white. _Column_ enclosed.

  Lælia anceps Dawsoni, _Anderson_, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, 1868, 27;
  _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, 1873, 254; _Warner_,
  _Select Orchidaceous Plants_, 2 ser., t. 34; _Jennings_, _Orchids_, t.
  6; _Floral Magazine_, t. 530; _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5
  ed., 202.

  Lælia anceps Dawsoniana, _Rand_, _Orchids_, 296.


This is one of the most chaste and beautiful Orchids of its class. The
type, _Lælia anceps_, has flowers of a rosy lilac and deep purple
colour, while the one before us is pure white with the exception of the
lip, which is of a rich sparkling purple, and makes a splendid contrast.

This variety was imported many years ago by the Messrs. Low & Co., of
Clapton. There have been several other white forms flowered lately, but
none to equal the one represented in our plate, the drawing of which was
taken from a very fine specimen bearing four spikes, growing in the rich
collection of R. B. Dodgson, Esq., of Blackburn; it was the finest plant
we have seen in bloom, and the production of so grand a specimen
reflects great credit on Mr. Osman, the Gardener, for his skill in
cultivation.

_Lælia anceps Dawsoni_ is, like the type form, of compact-growing habit.
The pseudobulbs are from four to six inches in height, and the foliage
of a light green colour. The flower spike is developed at the tip of the
pseudobulb after it has completed its growth, and attains to about two
feet in length, generally bearing two or three blossoms at the end; the
sepals and petals are pure white, of good form and substance, and the
lip is of a dark rosy purple edged with white, the disk orange coloured,
the lower part of the throat pale orange veined with crimson, and the
upper part white. It generally blooms in January and February, and
continues in perfection for two and three weeks.

This variety must be very rare in its native habitat, as we have
received importations on several occasions purporting to be this white
form, but after the plants have been grown on and flowered, they have
invariably proved to be the type with rosy-coloured flowers. This is
also the experience of other importers of Orchids.

The plant is best grown in a pot or basket suspended from the roof,
where it can obtain all the light possible, which induces it to grow
with greater vigour and to flower more freely. It thrives well in the
Cattleya house with a moderate supply of water in the growing season,
but when at rest less water will suffice. We have found good rough
fibrous peat to be the most advantageous material in which to grow it,
allowing ample drainage; and when fresh potting material is required the
operation of supplying it should be performed just as the plant begins
to grow, which is after the blooming season. Always bear in mind that
the plants must be kept free from insects.

Propagation is effected by dividing the plant just as it begins to break
into growth. In performing the operation two or three pseudobulbs should
be detached from the plant, having a leading bulb; when taken off at
this stage the plants soon become established.


Dendrobium Wardianum.—A fine variety of this grand Dendrobe comes from
D. Alroy Salamon, Esq., Clapham Park. The specimen has very large
flowers, four and a-half inches in diameter, and of great substance. The
sepals and petals are one and a-quarter inch broad, of a pure white,
heavily tipped with rich magenta; the lip is very large, and also
heavily blotched with magenta, the throat being rich orange with two
dark brown eye-like spots. These flowers were from an imported plant,
and we are curious to see whether it will produce equally fine flowers
from the home made growths. If so we shall hope to figure it at some
future time, as in the state in which it has just bloomed, it is
certainly one of the finest and best forms of this splendid species
which we have met with. It is also a free grower.—B. S. W.


Dendrobium Falconeri.—Mr. Priest, Gardener to the Marquis of Lothian,
has sent us some fine flowers of this favourite Dendrobe. He informs us
that the plant from which the flowers were taken has 150 blossoms upon
it. This must be a remarkably fine specimen, and well cultivated, to
produce flowers in such profusion.—H. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 45.
    CATTLEYA TRIANÆ.]




                            CATTLEYA TRIANÆ.
                              [Plate 45.]
                          Native of Colombia.


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ oblong, club-shaped, furrowed, about a foot in
  height, clothed with whitish membranaceous sheaths. _Leaves_ solitary,
  coriaceous, ligulate-oblong, recurved at the tip, of a deep green
  colour, six to eight inches long. _Scape_ two or three-flowered,
  proceeding from a terminal oblong compressed brownish bract or sheath,
  about two inches long. _Flowers_ large, variable in colour, from white
  to a dilute delicate tint of rosy purple in the typical form, the lip
  being of a rich magenta; _sepals_ three inches or more in length,
  oblong-lanceolate, plane, of a delicate blush or pallid tint of rosy
  purple; _petals_ of the same colour, rhombeo-ovate, retuse, crispulate
  at the anterior edge; _lip_ convolute at the base, where it is of a
  pale purplish mauve, the front lobe obovate, rounded and crimped in
  the anterior part, where it is bilobed, wholly covered with
  crimson-magenta, exceedingly rich and brilliant, the disk marked with
  a broad rich orange-yellow bilobed blotch. _Column_ club-shaped,
  bearing at the tip a pair of sickle-shaped wings.

  Cattleya Trianæ, _Linden and Reichenbach fil._, in _Mohl and
  Schlechtendal’s Botanische Zeitung_, xviii., 74 (1860); _Reichenbach
  fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, vi., 315.

  Cattleya labiata Lindigiana, _Karsten_—fide _Reichenbach fil._

  Cattleya labiata Trianæ, _Duchartre_, _Journal de la Société Impériale
  d’Horticulture_, 1860, 369—fide _Reichenbach fil._

  Epidendrum labiatum, _var._ Trianæ, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’
  Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, vi., 315.


This very charming species of _Cattleya_ was first obtained from
Colombia for European gardens, in 1856, by Mr. Linden, to whom we are
indebted for so many choice introductions amongst exotic plants. It is
one of the best and most useful of the species, especially for winter
decoration, and though very variable as regards the tinting of the
flowers in the many distinct forms which have been imported, it is
always of a brilliant and strikingly beautiful appearance, owing to the
rich colouring displayed on the lip. The shades of colour in the several
kinds varies from pure White through blush white and pale pinkish rose
to a pale shade of deep rose, the upper lobe of the lip being of a rich
magenta-crimson.

There are, as we have just said, many forms of _Cattleya Trianæ_. That
which we now figure we consider to be a very good representative of the
typical form of the species. Our drawing was taken from a very fine
specimen grown in the beautiful collection of R. B. Dodgson, Esq., of
Beardwood, Blackburn, in which many forms of this lovely species occur,
as we have already intimated under Plate 40. We have also mentioned Mr.
Osman as being a most successful cultivator of Orchidaceous plants.

_Cattleya Trianæ_ is a free-growing as well as a free-blooming species.
It has dark green foliage, and attains the height of about fifteen
inches, producing its blossoms during the winter months, after the
growths are completed. The sepals and petals are of a pale pink or
delicate tint of rosy purple; the lip is of a bright magenta, margined
with delicate rose-pink, the edge being fringed, and the disk marked
with a rich orange-coloured two-lobed blotch. The flowers are produced
in February and March, and continue for several weeks in perfection,
provided they are kept free from moisture, which if it lodges upon them
will cause them to become spotted, and destroy their beauty. It is an
excellent plan to place the plants when in bloom in a drier house than
that in which they are grown, and to bestow all possible care upon their
preservation. Of themselves they form a fine group of Cattleyas, there
being so many distinct varieties, of colours such as to make them
thoroughly useful for decorative purposes. By their agency our Orchid
houses may be kept gay for several months in the most dreary time of the
year, for when there is a number of plants they may be flowered in
succession. The plants can now be bought at a reasonable price, as, in
consequence of the large importations of them, they have become
plentiful.

_Cattleya Trianæ_ requires the same treatment as _C. labiata_, _C.
Mossiæ_, and others of the same class, all these plants being, indeed,
regarded by some botanists as varieties of one species. For their
successful growth the use of good fibrous peat and sphagnum moss, with
ample drainage, are requisite, and they should be kept well elevated
above the pot rim. They will also thrive well suspended from the roof in
baskets, and also on blocks of wood, but in these cases they require
more attention as to watering, in order to keep them moist at the roots.

Cattleyas thrive best when placed under the influence of strong light,
but they must be shaded from bright sunshine. This _régime_ induces them
to blossom more freely, indeed, if the bulbs are not well ripened good
results cannot be anticipated. The plants require a plentiful supply of
water during the growing season, by which we mean that they should be
kept constantly moist about the roots. When their growth is completed
less may be applied, merely enough to keep them in a plump state. When
the flower spikes begin to appear more water should again be given, as
it will induce the buds to swell more freely, in consequence of which
the flowers will be finer.


Orchids from Dr. Paterson.—This gentleman has been kind enough to send
us a grand spike of his _Vanda tricolor Patersoni_. It is a fine form of
this noble Orchid, the flowers being of large size, and well marked, the
lip beautifully coloured with rich magenta. A nice spike of the
beautiful _Aërides nobile_ came in the same parcel, and a curious _Eria_
with white flowers, named _stellata_ (the true _stellata_ has dull pale
yellow flowers) on account of the star-shaped form of its blossoms.—B.
S. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 46.
    MILTONIA CUNEATA.]




                           MILTONIA CUNEATA.
                              [Plate 46.]
                           Native of Brazil.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ ovate-oblong, compressed, light green,
  diphyllous. _Leaves_ ligulate-oblong, striate, somewhat carinate
  beneath, of a cheerful green colour. _Scape_ radical, erect, bearing a
  five to eight flowered raceme, each of the pedicels having at its base
  a whitish glumaceous triangular bract about half as long as the ovary.
  _Flowers_ large and showy, with a broad flat white lip; _sepals_
  oblong-lanceolate, narrowed to the base, of a deep chocolate-purple
  with a yellowish green tip on which is a dark spot, the margins
  undulated, the lateral ones connate at the base; _petals_ similar in
  form, size, and colour; _lip_ white, with a pink tinge, and one or two
  chocolate spots near the base, wedge-shaped, with a narrow claw-like
  base and a broad flat anterior expanded portion, somewhat repand on
  the margin, and furnished on the disk with two raised plates or
  lamellæ. _Column_ short, creamy white, bidentate on the middle
  portion, the anther-bed cucullate, membranaceous, denticulate, retuse.

  Miltonia cuneata, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, 1844, misc. 28;
  1845, t. 8; _Id._, _Folia Orchidacea_, art. _Miltonia_, No. 8;
  _Reichenbach fil._, _Xenia Orchidacea_, i. 131; _Moore_,
  _Illustrations of Orchidaceous Plants_, art. _Miltonia_, 7 t. 2;
  _Lemaire_, _L’Illustration Horticole_, t. 237; _Williams_, _Orchid
  Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 223.

  Miltonia speciosa, _Klotzsch_, in _Otto and Dietrich’s Allgemeine
  Gartenzeitung_, xvii. 129.

  Oncidium speciosum, _Reichenbach fil._, _MSS._; _Id._, _Walpers’
  Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, vi. 761.


This genus of Orchids is not a very extensive one, but among the species
which are known there are some beautiful plants of distinct and striking
character. The species which we now represent is a very pretty one,
which we are pleased to have the opportunity of introducing to the
notice of our readers. The specimen figured was grown in the fine
collection of W. Cobb, Esq., of Sydenham, who is a great lover of
Orchids, and makes it a study to procure the best kinds and cultivate
them in the best possible manner.

_Miltonia cuneata_ was introduced by the Messrs. Rollisson, of Tooting,
about the year 1843, and first flowered with them in the spring of 1844.
It is a free-growing plant, with light green foliage, which grows about
a foot in height, and produces its flowers in erect racemes, seven or
often more together. The sepals and petals are chestnut-brown, tipped
with greenish yellow, and the lip is broad and of a creamy white colour.
The flowers are produced in February and March, and last for several
weeks in beauty.

This _Miltonia_ requires the heat of the Cattleya house, and thrives in
good fibrous peat; it must be well drained in order that the superfluous
moisture may pass off, as the plant dislikes stagnant water about the
roots. In the growing season a moderate supply of water may be given at
the roots, but less will suffice when the growth is completed. We find
the Miltonias to require more shade than most Orchids. Their leaves are
thin in texture, and consequently are soon injured, which makes it
necessary to pay strict attention to the requirements of the plants, as
while too much sun would dry up the foliage, too much moisture about it
would cause it to go spotted.

They are propagated by dividing the bulbs, leaving two old ones and a
growth in front. These divided portions should be potted in small pots
until they get well established, and always at all times be kept free
from insects. The white scale will sometimes attack them, and do much
injury if not promptly removed.


Lælia elegans prasiata.—From E. Harvey, Esq., Aigburth, Liverpool, comes
a spike of a grand form of this fine _Lælia_. The flowers are six inches
across, the sepals and petals purplish rose, the lip rich magenta. This
is quite a distinct form, and worthy of a place in every collection.
Accompanying this was a spike of _Scuticaria Hadweni_, var. _pardalina_,
described some time ago in the _Gardeners’ Chronicle_.—B. S. W.


Dendrobium nobile (three-lipped).—Mr. Knight, Gardener to the Right Hon.
W. H. Smith, M.P., Greenlands, Henley-on-Thames, sends us a curious form
of this grand old Orchid, with three lips, two of the lips taking the
place of the petals of the normal flowers, and being marked and coloured
in a similar manner to the ordinary lip. In addition, the flower was
deliciously scented. We do not suppose that this variation will be
constant, being more probably a malformation.—B. S. W.


Bollea cœlestis as a block plant.—When visiting the establishment of
Messrs. Vervaet et Cie., of Gand, Belgium, in April last, we were
surprised to see this lovely Orchid quite at home on a block, growing
luxuriantly, and rooting in all directions; the growths were very
strong, and as healthy as any we have seen. Is it possible that this may
be the secret of success with this Orchid? Being an epiphyte, found
growing on the limbs of trees, we should imagine this treatment would be
the most natural for it. It is evident that pot culture does not suit
it, as it frequently dies off after two or three years.—H. W.

    [Illustration:  PL. 47.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM ALEXANDRÆ.]




                        ODONTOGLOSSUM ALEXANDRÆ.
                              [Plate 47.]
                     Native of Bogota, New Grenada.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ oblong-ovate, compressed, often stained
  brownish purple, two-leaved. _Leaves_ ligulate-oblong, acute,
  channelled toward the base, of a pleasing light green colour. _Scape_
  radical, supporting a many-flowered raceme, or in the more vigorous
  plants a panicle equalling or exceeding the leaves, and having small
  acute bracts at the base of the pedicels. _Flowers_ exquisitely chaste
  and beautiful, white, tinted with rose, and variously spotted, fully
  three inches across; _sepals_ ovate-lanceolate, acuminate, entire or
  toothed, white, suffused more or less with a delicate tint of
  rose-pink; _petals_ in the best forms, broadly ovate and much
  undulated, entire or toothed, white, rather less deeply tinted with
  pink; _lip_ shorter than the petals, oblong-ovate, the margin much
  crisped and the shortly acuminate apex recurved, white, with a rich
  yellow stain down the centre, and marked with reddish brown radiating
  lines on the disk, and with one or two (or in some forms many) rich
  red-brown spots or blotches half-way down, the disk also bearing a
  bilamellate crest. _Column_ arcuate, club-shaped, chestnut-red.

  Odontoglossum Alexandræ, _Bateman_, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, 1864,
  1083; _Id._, _Proceedings of the Royal Horticultural Society_, iv.,
  186; _Id._, _Monograph of Odontoglossum_, t.t. 14, 19; _Hooker_,
  _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5691 (var. _Trianæ_), t. 5697 (var.
  _guttatum_); _Jennings_, _Orchids_, t. 26; _Warner_, _Select
  Orchidaceous Plants_, 2 ser., t. 23 (var. _Warneri_); _Floral
  Magazine_, t. 343; _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 228.

  Odontoglossum Bluntii, _Reichenbach, fil._, in _Mohl and
  Schlechtendal’s Botanische Zeitung_, “n. 53, Dec. 64;” _Van Houtte_,
  _Flore des Serres_, t. 1652.

  Odontoglossum crispum, _Lindley_, in _Annals of Natural History_, xv.,
  256; _Id._, _Folia Orchidacea_, art. _Odontoglossum_, No. 57;
  _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, vi.,
  845.


The Princess of Wales’ Odontoglossum, one of the most beautiful and one
of the most useful of Orchids, was found in the province of Bogota, in
New Grenada, at an altitude of from 7,000 to 8,000 feet, growing in
great profusion on the branches of trees in the forests of that elevated
region. It was introduced to this country in 1864 by Mr. Weir, when
collecting for the Royal Horticultural Society, and was described in
that year by Mr. Bateman as above quoted. There cannot be two opinions
respecting its beauty, as it is one of the best Orchids in cultivation;
and though there are amongst the imported plants great diversities in
the form and colour of the flowers, yet all are beautiful. Some have the
flowers of a pure white, in others they are variously suffused with a
delicate rosy hue; some are spotted with crimson, and there are those
with yellow flowers, but the most chaste and beautiful of them all are
the pure white varieties, tinted with rose colour, which are mostly
sought after by cultivators, though the many beautifully spotted forms
produce a fine contrast when intermixed with the others.

The figure we now publish was taken from a well-grown specimen in the
collection of H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, at Sandringham, and, as this
species is named in honour of the Princess of Wales, who is a great
lover of flowers, and especially of the Orchidaceæ, we are proud to be
able to announce that our artist has been permitted to prepare an
illustration of this charming plant from such a source. There is a very
fine collection of these plants at Sandringham, and among them are some
very fine specimens, the accomplished gardener, Mr. C. Penny, being most
successful in flowering them with grand spikes of bloom. There are also
numerous varieties in the collection, but the one we have figured is a
good example of the typical form.

_Odontoglossum Alexandræ_ is a compact-growing plant, attaining about a
foot in height; it is furnished with lively green foliage, and produces
its blossoms after the growth is completed on a drooping spike which, as
it overhangs the green foliage, has a most graceful appearance. The
sepals are white, slightly tinged with pale rose colour, the petals are
pure white, and the lip is white, with reddish-brown spots upon it, and
a patch of bright orange-yellow at the base. The plants bloom at
different times of the year, according to the period of the completion
of their growth, and, therefore, by having a good quantity of plants, a
succession may be kept flowering all the year round. We are never
without a good show of these plants in bloom, and it is the same in all
collections where they are grown in considerable numbers. The individual
flowers will last many weeks in beauty. They are extremely useful for
cutting, as they keep for a long time in water.

As this species requires what is called cool treatment very little
expense need be incurred in its cultivation. Indeed, any one having a
small house where a temperature can be kept up in winter of from 45° to
50°, with as little fire-heat as possible, can grow a great quantity of
them, since they occupy but little space. In summer no fire-heat is
required, unless the nights are cold, which is seldom the case at that
season, but no draughts should be allowed to reach them, as draughts are
as deleterious to them as to all other plants grown in glass houses.
They require shading from the scorching rays of the sun, but like to
have all the light that can be given them. Under this treatment they
will grow stronger and stronger, and flower more and more freely.

The potting material which we find most suitable for them is good
fibrous peat, with the finer earthy particles shaken out; they must have
good drainage, in fact the pots must be three-parts filled with drainage
material, and the plants well elevated above the pot rim. They are
naturally free-rooting plants, but we find a little live sphagnum moss
on the top of the peat causes them to root more freely, and as they
require a good deal of moisture at the roots during their period of
growth, the moss, if kept in a growing condition, will help to supply
their wants.

    [Illustration:  PL. 48.
    VANDA CŒRULESCENS.]




                           VANDA CŒRULESCENS.
                              [Plate 48.]
                           Native of Burmah.


  Epiphytal. _Stem_ one to two feet high or more, producing long stout
  flexuous roots from the leaf bases. _Leaves_ close set, distichous,
  linear-ligulate, truncately-bilobed, coriaceous, channelled, five to
  seven inches long, of a deep green colour, carinate, the keel forming
  an angular projection at the tip. _Scapes_ or _Peduncles_ slender,
  distantly vaginate, with small appressed sheaths, axillary, erect,
  bearing a ten to twenty flowered raceme longer than the leaves.
  _Flowers_ neat and very pleasing, pale mauve-blue; _sepals_ incurved,
  cuneate-ovate, obtuse, clawed, of a pale greyish blue; _petals_
  similar in size, form, and colour, twisted at the base, with the two
  lateral lobes tawny-yellow, and adnate to the column, the middle or
  front lobe obcuneate dilated and emarginate at the apex, the margins
  deflexed, of a rich violet-blue, with a pair of keel-shaped deep
  violet calli and a short intermediate one on the disk, the spur
  straight or incurved, conical, tipped with green. _Column_ small,
  blue.

  Vanda cœrulescens, _Griffith_, _Notulæ_, 352; _Id._, _Icones_, t. 331;
  _Lindley_, _Folia Orchidacea_, art. _Vanda_, No. 19; _Reichenbach
  fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, vi., 868; _Id._,
  in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, 1869, 498; 1870, 529, fig. 97; _Hooker
  fil._, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5834 (colour faulty); _Williams_,
  _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, ed. 5, 305.


The Vandas are a most noble family of Orchids, including amongst them
many beautiful species, such as _V. suavis_, _V. tricolor_, _V.
Batemanni_, and others. They are well furnished with leaves, and make
splendid specimens, requiring considerable space in which to grow them,
but they are plants of great beauty, and when not in bloom make grand
objects of attraction. No collection should be without them, as they
flower at all times of the year. Where a number of these Orchids are
grown, as at Chatsworth, we have seen as many as 193 spikes in blossom
at one time, presenting a most glorious sight.

The Vandas are of easy cultivation. The species which we now figure is a
small, elegant-growing, free-blooming plant, and also very distinct in
character, as will be seen from the plate, which gives a good
representation of it. Our drawing was taken from a beautiful specimen
growing in the splendid collection of C. Dorman, Esq., The Firs, Laurie
Park, Sydenham, who has one of the best grown collections of Orchids we
have seen, and one which does great credit to Mr. Coningsby, the
gardener.

_Vanda cœrulescens_ is a compact growing species, as may be seen from
our plate. In this instance it produced a flower spike of a drooping
habit fifteen inches long, which is quite an exception, as the flower
spikes are generally more or less erect or ascending. The sepals and
petals are of a bluish-mauve, the lip of a deep blue. It is altogether
most distinct in colour, and a plant that is greatly required in a
collection of Orchids for the sake of the charming contrasts it yields.
It blooms at different times of the year, and continues for several
weeks in beauty. We find the heat of the East India house is congenial
to it. It grows well in sphagnum moss, and must have good drainage,
because it must be kept moist during the growing season; when at rest
less moisture is required. The plant thrives either in a pot or in a
basket suspended from the roof, so that it may get plenty of light, but
must be shaded from the sun.


Odontoglossum Alexandræ reginæ.—F. A. Philbrick, Esq., Oldfield,
Bickley, has sent us two fine spikes of this grand variety, the white
flowers of which are of good form and profusely blotched, both on the
sepals and petals, with reddish crimson. It is one of the finest spotted
forms of this valuable species.—B. S. W.


Orchids from Perth, N.B.—We have received from W. Macdonald, Esq.,
Woodlands, Perth, a nice spike of _Scuticaria Steelii_, with three
flowers. This is a curious growing Orchid, and one seldom sees it in
blossom. The flowers are produced from the base of the reed-like leaves,
and are yellow, distinctly spotted with crimson. The plant makes a fine
specimen for a block, and when suspended from the roof shows off its
leaves and flowers to advantage. Accompanying this was a spike of a fine
variety of _Odontoglossum Pescatorei_, with flowers measuring three and
a half inches across. Mr. Macdonald informs us that this spike was
produced from a plant with small bulbs, and he expects, as the plant
gets stronger, that it will produce larger flowers. There was also in
flower at The Woodlands a grand specimen of _Camarotis purpurea_, with
about 100 spikes of its pretty rosy pink flowers fully open.—B. S. W.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—Silently corrected a few palpable typos.

—Added arabic page numbers to non-plate pages.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Orchid Album, Volume 1, by 
Robert Warner and Benjamin Samuel Williams and Thomas Moore

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ORCHID ALBUM, VOLUME 1 ***

***** This file should be named 55145-0.txt or 55145-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/5/1/4/55145/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Carol Spears and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

